Tactical IT Intrusion Portfolio
FININTRUSION KIT

FinIntrusion Kit was designed and developed by worldclass IT Intrusion specialists, who have over 10 years of
experience in their area through their work in several Tiger
Teams (Red Teams) in the private and government sector
assessing the security of different networks and organizations.
The FinIntrusion Kit is an up-to-date and covert operational
Kit that can be used for most common IT Intrusion
Operations in defensive and offensive areas. Current
customers include Military CyberWar Departments,
Intelligence Agencies, Police Intelligence and other
Law Enforcement Agencies.

QUICK INFORMATION
Usage:

· Strategic Operations
· Tactical Operations

Capabilities:

· Break WEP/WPA Encryption
· Network Monitoring
(including SSL Sessions)
· IT Intrusion Attacks

Content:

· Hardware/Software

Usage Example 1: Technical Surveillance Unit

Usage Example 2: IT Security

The FinIntrusion Kit was used to break the WPA encryption
of a Target’s home Wireless network and then monitor
his Webmail (Gmail, Yahoo, …) and Social Network
(Facebook, MySpace, …) credentials, which enabled the
investigators to remotely monitor these accounts from
Headquarters without the need to be close to the Target.

Several customers used the FinIntrusion Kit to successfully
compromise the security of networks and computer
systems for offensive and defensive purposes using
various Tools and Techniques.

Usage Example 3: Strategic Use-Cases
The FinIntrusion Kit is widely used to remotely gain access
to Target Email Accounts and Target Web-Servers (e.g.
Blogs, Discussion Boards) and monitor their activities,
including Access-Logs and more.

Feature Overview
·
·
·
·

Discovers Wireless LANs (802.11) and Bluetooth® devices
Recovers WEP (64 and 128 bit) Passphrases within 2-5 minutes
Breaks WPA1 and WPA2 Passphrases using Dictionary Attacks
Actively monitors Local Area Network (Wired and Wireless) and extracts Usernames and
Passwords even for TLS/SSL-encrypted sessions

· Emulates Rogue Wireless Access-Point (802.11)
· Remotely breaks into Email Accounts using Network-, System- and Password-based Intrusion Techniques
· Network Security Assessment and Validation
For a full feature list please refer to the Product Specifications.

www.gammagroup.com

FINFISHER™
it intrusion

Tactical IT Intrusion Portfolio
FININTRUSION KIT

Product Components

FinIntrusion Kit - Covert Tactical Unit

FinTrack Operation Center

Basic IT Intrusion Components:
· High-Power WLAN Adapter
· High-Power Bluetooth Adapter
· 802.11 Antennas
· Many Common IT Intrusion Devices

· Graphical User Interface for Automated IT Intrusion
Attacks

Automated LAN/WLAN Monitoring

Tactical IT Intrusion Portfolio
FININTRUSION KIT

LAN/WLAN Active Password Sniffer
Captures even SSL-encrypted data
Video Portals, Online-Banking and more

like

Webmail,

