Tactical IT Intrusion Portfolio
FINUSB SUITE

The FinUSB Suite is a flexible product that enables Law
Enforcement and Intelligence Agencies to quickly and
securely extract forensic information from computer
systems without the requirement of IT-trained Agents.
It has been used in successful operations around the world
where valuable intelligence has been acquired about
Targets in covert and overt operations.

QUICK INFORMATION
Usage:

· Tactical Operations

Capabilities:

· Information Gathering
· System Access
· Quick Forensics

Content:

· Hardware/Software

Usage Example 1: Covert Operation

Usage Example 2: Technical Surveillance Unit

A source in an Organized Crime Group (OCG) was
given a FinUSB Dongle that secretly extracted Account
Credentials of Web and Email accounts and Microsoft
Office documents from the Target Systems, while the
OCG used the USB device to exchange regular files like
Music, Video and Office Documents.

A Technical Surveillance Unit (TSU) was following a Target
that frequently visited random Internet Cafés making
monitoring with Trojan-Horse-like technology impossible.
The FinUSB was used to extract the data left on the public
Terminals used by the Target after the Target left.

After returning the USB device to Headquarters the
gathered data could be decrypted, analyzed and used to
constantly monitor the group remotely.

Several documents that the Target opened in his web-mail
could be recovered this way. The gathered information
included crucial Office files, Browsing History through
Cookie analysis, and more.

Feature Overview
·
·
·
·

Optimized for Covert Operations
Easy usability through Automated Execution
Secure Encryption with RSA and AES
Extraction of Usernames and Passwords for all common software like:
· Email Clients
· Messengers
· Browsers
· Remote Administration Tools

· Silent Copying of Files (Search Disks, Recycle-Bin, Last opened/edited/created)
· Extracting Network Information (Chat Logs, Browsing History, WEP/WPA(2) Keys, …)
· Compilation of System Information (Running/Installed Software, Hard-Disk Information, …)
For a full feature list please refer to the Product Specifications.

www.gammagroup.com

FINFISHER™
it intrusion

Tactical IT Intrusion Portfolio
FINUSB SUITE

Product Components

FinUSB Suite - Mobile Unit

FinUSB HQ
· Graphical User Interface to decrypt and analyze
gathered Data
· Configure Dongle Operational Options

10 FinUSB Dongle (U3 - 16GB)

FinUSB - Windows Password Bypass

· Covertly extracts data from system
· Encrypts Data on-the-fly

· Bypass Windows Logon without permanent
system modifications

Tactical IT Intrusion Portfolio
FINUSB SUITE

Easy Usability

1. Pick up a FinUSB Dongle
2. Configure all desired Features / Modules and
update your FinUSB Dongle with FinUSB HQ
3. Go to your Target System
4. Plug in your FinUSB Dongle
5. Wait until all data is transferred
6. Go back to your FinUSB HQ
7. Import all Data from FinUSB Dongle
8. Generate Report

Professional Reports

