Remote Monitoring & Infection Solutions
FINFLY WEB

One of the major challenges in using a Remote Monitoring
Solution is to install it onto the Target System, especially
when only a little information, like an Email-address, is
available and no physical access can be achieved.
FinFly Web is designed to provide remote and covert
infection of a Target System by using a wide range of
web-based attacks.
FinFly Web provides a point-and-click interface, enabling
the Agent to easily create a custom infection code
according to selected modules.

QUICK INFORMATION
Usage:

· Strategic Operations

Capabilities:

· Deploys Remote Monitoring
Solution on Target System
through Websites

Content:

· Software

Target Systems visiting a prepared website with the implemented infection code will be covertly infected with the
configured software.

Usage Example 1: Technical Surveillance Unit

Usage Example 2: Intelligence Agency

After profiling a Target, the unit created a website of
interest for the Target and sent him the link through a
discussion board. Upon opening the Link to the unit’s
website, a Remote Monitoring Solution was installed on the
Target System and the Target was monitored from within
Headquarters.

The customer deployed FinFly ISP within the main Internet
Service Provider of their country. It was combined with
FinFly Web to remotely infect Targets that visited
government offensive websites by covertly injecting
the FinFly Web code into the targeted websites.

Feature Overview
· Fully-Customizable Web Modules
· Can be covertly installed into every Website
· Full integration with FinFly LAN and FinFly ISP to deploy even inside
popular Websites like Webmail, Video Portals and more
· Installs Remote Monitoring Solution even if only email address is known
· Possibility to target every person visiting configured Websites
For a full feature list please refer to the Product Specifications.

www.gammagroup.com

FINFISHER™
it intrusion

Remote Monitoring & Infection Solutions
FINFLY WEB

Product Components

FinFly Web
· Point-and-click software to create
custom infection Websites

FinFly Web direct infection

Full integration with FinFly LAN and FinFly ISP

Remote Monitoring & Infection Solutions
FINFLY WEB

Example: Java Applet (Internet Explorer, Firefox, Opera, Safari)
The website will prompt the Target to accept a Java plug-in that can be signed with
any company name (e.g. “Microsoft Corporation”)

Example: Missing Component (IE, Firefox, Opera, Safari)
The website will pretend that a plug-in/codec etc. is missing on the Target
System and prompt it to download and install this software

Remote Monitoring & Infection Solutions
FINFLY WEB

Example: Missing XPI (Firefox only, all platforms)
This module will prompt the Target to install additional plug-ins
in order to be able to view the website.

The information contained herein is confidential
and subject to change without notice. Gamma
Group International shall not be liable for
technical or editorial errors or omissions
contained herein.

GAMMA INTERNATIONAL
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 - 1264 - 332 411
Fax: +44 - 1264 - 332 422
info@gammagroup.com

