CATA RETENTION SOLUTION
FULL SCOPE COVERAGE • BILLING • METAOATA & CONTENT

~lor•t•
lndm•nau~1
...1..0,
.'
nteN!1tnt .tnatnJ' tools
( /

~
Oatt1 R!tention System - Central location

INTELLIGENT DATA RETENTION SOLUTION
Based on CEREBRO-DRS product, Advanced

• Integration of CEREBRO-DRS with several IP probes
and telephony sensors.

Middle East Systems offers a versatile, flexible
data retention solution for services providers
and intelligence agencies.

• Versatile archiving system, independant of sources

Thanks to GSM passive probes (GAMMA-MA)

• Capacity to archive billions of records

and IP massive sensors (IOTA-1OG-MA), the
central data retention system will receive an

• Business Intelligence tools embedded

incredibly valuable volume of information.
• Display consolidated billing data
Our challenge is to deliver powerful tools to
the investigators that help them to dig into
this huge mass of communication.

• Possibility to archive content and metadata
• Different policy of storage applicable

ADVANCED
MIOOLE

E A ST

SYSTEMS

SENSORS
The different used sensors for this solution are part of the GAMMA and IOTA family from Ames , those
probes are performing the CDR extraction (for the voice part) and the IPDR extraction for the IP network. Once those extractions are done , the data is sent to the cerebra core technology.
As an option, depending of the probe version chosen, the data retention solution can also handle the
full content of communication and link it to the extracted metadata.

WAYS TO ACCESS THE DATA
The central data retention is designed to receive a huge quantity of information and to be able to index
and store it in real time.
These real time indexation techniques are designed to ease the operational access to the data. Each
investigator w ill be able to drill down the massive storage by searching and filtering on technical criteria
TECHllCAl DETAILS

(Email adress, phone number, IP adress, unique service provider identifier, etc.)
Depending on the information available on the probe level, the search in the DRS can also be done
on geolocation information, on document exchanges or on specific information relative to the source

No llmlt In scalablllty In terms of stor-

analyzed.

age duration and In terms of number
of sensors

OPTIONAL GOOGLE-LIKE APPROACH
The google-like approach enhances the relevance of the archiving database by adding smart and

Capacity to lntagrat9 very high densl-

efficient operational tools. Those tools allow the investigators to drill down in the billions of records

ty stonlge~

through an ergonomic google-like interface with a time of response as quick as google. Advanced tools

(2 petllbytes In 1 x 42U Rack)

like faceted search to categorize results or graphical dashboards are also available in this option.

STORAGE POLICY
Depending on the type of information stored, the DRS can apply a different storage policy. The system
can, for example, store all the metadata during 12 months and the communication content during 1
month only to optimize the required storage space.

BILLING
In addition to these features, the data retention system can be used with a billing option. The DRS is
providing all the necessary information to monitor any kind of billing data.

--··-·--·
..
-·-·..·- -·-·
·......... ... ·----·-·-·- --- .
·-·~-

,

;:

.--...,-

......

0

~

·-~·-

·-- - ..
~

___

.,

j

GUI to search in the DRS

·-·--t

0

~

M

•
Principle of scalability

ADVANCED
MIOOLE

E A ST

SYSTEMS
P.O. BOX: 500439
Internet City
Duba'i - U.A.E.

Mobile: +971 56 72 44 190
Email: contact@advancedsystems.ae

All specifications presented in this document are subject to modifications w ithout notice and are not contractual.

