all

a

if." i.

   



THE EAGLE 

INTEGRATED INA 

EDMPLITEFI FDHTAETIEAL
GPEFGTIGMG

SMll'i'T ls a claslgnacl
la racarcl. slara- analyze ansI display
lr] real llma This syslam
ls able la a Hilda range Ell
pralacals- lnclua'lng mall. chIlca auar
lF' ['UalPl. wa?mall. anal. net}
Draw-slag 

 

  

SMINT TACTICN. BASED DH EAGLE
CURE 

 

MAIN FEATURES

Phygahie directlyI an 
with apprc-priate Till. 

Can he cdrriJ-ined ith ABEL Gr
Gr Eiatell'rte sense-rs.

Can analyze the centent df
netwdriu: capturefiles [pcapfilesi

Stdrage designed td recs-rd days
at traffic.

Able td analyze q] td lutips
full-dmiex Gt incurrith traffic in
real tirne.

Ahietd analyze E1 based link
with specfic captdr.

ideal dperatdrs Gr
inuestigatinns that need a chase
surveillance Gt yd-ur suspects.

tc- have rrult'puie
dperatc-rs waiting en the sarre
central de'u'ice thrcugh highlyI
secured cdnnectinn.

Network and Security



 

GEHEHIIL UEE

Elli-IT can be plugged in the mirrcred d? asWitch er in an dptical tapldr erample ?nse plugged- the
system rech the IF tra'l?ic lWith adata rate uptd clashes and stdra in an CHEELE databme-

The cdre in the all" system :5 able td recdgnize many IF nethnr and else the
n?drmatidn :1 E1 Unius- All nethirtr are recdgnized thrcugh adI.I anced techniques based dn 
syrtai-i analyse- called Eleep Packet lnspec?cn- Whereas cdmpetitiye dd thrdugh nethnr 
identficstidn that can easily be misled-

The analyzing prdcesses d? are en the must used mail FCIFEL
Wetmail trarsactidns yal'tdd maiL g'nail- 'Ii'dce dyer Edny ersatidrs HTF- SIP. HEIEEL 
{that BEEIDHB MM- Feertd Peerlile erchange Web  

At arty ?ne. the end Leer can reguea the entire databae in real time With an unlrnited anber d? trey-Ward- With
an email address lsender dr recener]- With pl'tdne numbers- With the type cr name :1 atasned tiles dr With the
caller drcallee name in audid cdny ersatidns-

SENans 

Elli-I1 :5 the perfect arsWerl'dr tacch ape-raima. it can nail-i ely be plugged dn arty E1 dr nethnr- bI-t it
can else be used in With Satellite MSLtap dr eren WFI prdbes prdrided by 
example- With the WFI prdbe- ydu Will be able td select a spec?: BEBE pdint lIL?IperL WEF dr WFA
and then have access td all gding thrdugh this REESE pcirl.

AWIDEHMGE 

With the system. the rs able td acce? tn the irt?crmaidn in its cr-gnal term. This leaure is
at.- alable far all the recdgnized by the system 'Ii'le' cdnyersst-sns lincluding cdders liire
Chat ccrrilersat-sn- Web Emaits 

   
  

  

 

 

 

 

 

The Graphical User Irterl?ase ?represertatidn dt Sacral Net-rm

AH EITEHDEDMD MULTILIHGUN. EEill?l-T-H ENGINE

Thar?rs tn the CHASLE databme indexatidn and tn the intelligert search engine- all? all return valuable
data 1c- each Iiey'rai-rd reguea- ?-llHT a tad bit a crew search engine Which giyes alWais quasar-late and
relevant ramlta. The research can be ddne in many dI'l?erert languages lEninsh- Frerch- Eterman- Arabic-


TECHNICAL DETAILE-

Lnr-c based archtecture Prccessing based dn I.Iirtual machine architecture
Dual q-iad-cdre prdcessdr Pcss?ly td replstI recdrded capture
ct Hm FIE Elli-E} Accept rem-:te secure cdnnectidrs l?dr multiple

Tm am GB Hard dei-s ?$1953?
Wm  ?ammable Hard ?nal: Sacral Nam 

 

user-a: WM

 

