Milliseconds Matter:
Achieving Real-Time Intelligence
Today's intelligence systems are facing the demands of ever expanding tlows of data. New and far more advanced generations of electronic data
sources are enabling opportunities to discover information in ways never before possible. However, traditional, centralized data platforms are not
natively capable of supporting the demands of modern intelligence systems that require high ingest, correlation, massively parallel processing,
fusion and real-time decision support from distributed and complex data.

The Challenge: Find Terrorists, Where They Are, Now.
When it cornes to unlocking the networks of crime and terrorist
organizations hidden within your data, relationships are the single
most important key. Advanced data and relationship analytics are the
cornerstone of generating intelligence information from raw data.
Analytics requires a higher order of data mining than traditional
methods and SQL queries. ldentifying behavioural patterns and trends,
finding hidden connections between suspects, and discovering
centrality within networks ail require a data platform capable of
moving through information in a highly scalable, parallel environment

The Capabilities of Traditional, Relational Technologies
Do Not Support Today's Requirements.
ln a recent internai test, comparing Objectivity/08 to the world's most
widely used commercial relational database management system, the
objective was to traverse increasing numbers of relationships, to find
connections between two objects separated by 5 degrees.
Objectivity/DB traversed 96,000 relationships to 5-degrees in 15
seconds, while the leading relational database required over 16 hours.
ln the 15 seconds it took Objectivity/DB to traverse nearly 100,000
relationships, the leading relational solution was only able to traverse
1,600.
Traversing Complex Relationships in Data
Leading Relational DBMS vs. Objectivity/DB

Objectivity/DB Enables Real-Time Intelligence
ln a recent customer scenario, Objectivity/ DB was demonstrated
analysing 1OO million phone call records, discovering 5 degree
relationships between individuals within seconds, and on a
standard laptop. The leading relational database based system was
unable to return a single result even after running for several hours
on high-end hardware.
This relationship analysis or "link hunting" system was also
configured to utilize distributed computing or virtualized cloud
computing environments with ease. Objectivity/DB is a completely
distributed solution and actually gains processing power in almost
linear relation to the available hardware and compute nodes. If you
achieve a certain performance rate on some number of machines,
and then distribute the same data across ten times the machines,
the results will be returned to analysts roughly ten times faster.
When this system is deployed it will support hundreds of
concurrent users, billions and billions of nodes and relationships,
and will return results from queries against complex graph
structures within a matter of seconds.
This Objectivity customer can determine where the bad guys
are right now, rather than where they were two days ago.

Objectivity, lnc. is the leader in distributed, scalable data
management technology, and is the enabling technology
powering some of the most complex applications and mission
critical systems used in government, business and science
organizations today.

Objectivity, lnc
640 West California Avenue, Suite 21 O
Sunnyvale, California, 94086-3624
U.S. 1 408 992 71 OO
www.objectivity.com

