Product Sheet - Objectivity and Palantir

Exabyte Enable Your Palantir

The Palantir-Objectivity lntegration
Objectivity, lnc. has partnered with Palantir Technologies to provide a Helper Application that
provides groundbreaking scalability in link analysis systems built on Objectivity's distributed data
and processing platform , Objectivity/DB.
Llnk Analysis Application
Service roer

.

Objectivity/DB

Elastic Search Agent Clood
(Private Amazoo EC2)

°'

Cloud Based Storege
(e.g Amazon EBS)

8
8
8
8

...

.... '

' ~' , "

Client Applications

This diagram
illustrates a
sample cloudbased
architecture for a
link hunting
application using
Objectivity/DB
and Pa/antir.

Load Based
Cloud Provisioning

Cloud Services API

The companies are working to seamlessly integrate their products , empowering users to search
for distant connections among hundreds of millions of paths calculated with sub-second
response time, all from directly within the Palantir user interface. This integration further extends
Palantir's capabilities to additional degrees of separation on increasingly massive data sets .
The companies recently worked
together to demonstrate a link
analysis application that can
analyze millions of relationships
within seconds on a standard
laptop and can scale to hundreds
of millions of relationships with
minimal hardware.
By
leveraging
Palantir's
extensibility
and
seamless
interface with
Objectivity/DB's
flexible architecture, developers
can build custom applications that
can process massive amounts of
data and scale as the need grows.

www.objectivity.com

-This screenshot shows how users will be able ta leverage
bath Palantir and Objectivity/DB ta find, track and analyze
paths between millions of data points.

Product Sheet - Objectivity and Palantir

Exabyte Enable Your Palantir
Enabling Setter Security and Intelligence
ln today's security landscape, government agencies have more complex data to analyze from more
sources than ever before. Objectivity/DB is already at work in applications that are central to government
agencies involved in security and intelligence initiatives, including :
•
•
•

•
•
•

Security analysis & cryptanalysis
Social network analysis
Knowledge and case management

Mapping terrorist networks
Geospatial data fusion
COMINT, ELINT, HUMINT and SIGINT

Why you need Objectivity/DB
Data management challenges are more complicated than ever before, and today's software innovators are
increasingly looking for industrial-strength products that allow them to bu ild systems to manage massive
volumes of complex data .
From the world 's larges! databases and real-time , distributed , multi-source data challenges to complex
inter-related data fusion systems with demanding performance challenges , Objectivity/DB is becoming
the standard for building data fusion applications in Government and Complex Manufacturing .
Systems based on Objectivity/DB meet and exceed high performance specifications that require systems
to ingest, fuse , store, correlate and navigate immense volumes of data at extremely high ingest rates .

The Technology
Objectivity/DB is an object-oriented data platform that is compatible across multiple hardware platforms,
operating systems, and languages. Current language support includes Java , C++, C#, Python , and SmallTalk. Write abjects with Java and read with C++ . Modify using C++ and read again using Python . Modify
with Python and read again with Java.

No Database Server:
Objectivity/DB does not rely on a database server like many relational databases. lnstead , it has a small
application library linked into the application , a lock-server process and a page-server process. These are
light-weight applications that manage locks and data pages for all of the Objectivity/DB applications
accessing a federated database.
Object Relationships: Objectivity/DB relationships alleviate the need to perform joins to access-related
data by allowing the creation of persisted "pointers" between objects that applications can then follow to
retrieve related objects. This capability is considerably faster than using SQL joins.
Fully Distributed: Objectivity/DB supports many data models. Organizations can distribute applications
and leave data on a centralized server, or distribute data across hundreds or thousands of computers and
support centralized applications, or distribute the applications and the data . Developers can also use
replication to move
copies of data closer to
their point-of-use.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Objectivity, lnc.
Phone: +1 .408.992.7100

www .objectivity .corn

www.objectivity.com

