CASE STUDY

Network Centric Collaborative Targeting Systems

Network-Centric Warfare System
The U.S. Air Force's NCCT is an open network-centric architecture and software design that horizontally
integrates airborne and ground assets to detect, locate, track and target ground targets. Through
machine-ta-machine exchanges, NCCT supports time-sensitive and prioritized targeting operations
more efficiently, accurately and quickly. CEC is the U.S. Navy's premier network-centric warfare system ,
which shares radar data between participants to precisely track airborne targets , providing combat
identification on airborne tracks and engagement-quality information to all participants. CEC is fielded
on several E-2 aircraft, cruisers, destroyers, amphibious ships and aircraft carriers.
Red ucing T arget Acq uis itio n Time by 90%
The Objectivity/DB is at the heart of the NCCT Fusion Engine (NFE) supporting the NCCT application .
Objectivity/DB is storing and managing vast amounts of disparate information performing data fusion
from geospatial and sensor data from the NCCT sensor network. Objectivity/DB provides a reliable ,
scalable repository for the wide range of complex data types found in this type of mission-critical
application . The Objectivity platform is highly optimized for performance and throughput in systems that
handle highly interconnected data. Objectivity/DB 's distributed processing system architecture, with no
single point of failure, provides the robustness
Target Acquisition Time (seconds)

necessary for this application. Objectivity/DB handles all
aspects of interoperability, including language, operating

The Objectivity/DB
platform reduces 100
the time it takes
80
to accurately
locate targets
60
by more than 90%

system , file system , networking and hardware
dependencies.
As part of the NCCT concept, all participating platforms
and ground stations can not only exchange data , they

40

can also collaborate to coherently collect and create
new information that would otherwise go unreported by

20

traditional "stove piped" platforms that do not easily
share and disseminate information ."By efficiently netting

0

Original
ROB MS

and synchronizing sensors in real-time and combining
Objectivity/DB

detections, it is possible to increase the probability of
detecting and identifying a target, while also reducing

the time it takes to accurately locate targets by more than 90%," according to Gary Davis, director of the
NCCT program for L-3 ComCept. 'This refined information updates a common , shared network
Objectivity database so that the problem of multiple reports on a single target is dramatically reduced ."

SuccessStory: Network Centnc Collaborative Target1ng Systems
2 of 4

Copynght © Objectivity, lnc. - Ali Rights Re5erved.

CASE STUDY

Network Centric Collaborative Targeting Systems

OBJECTIVITY SOLUTION UNIQUELY ENABLES INTEGRATION
PROGRAM BETWEEN U.S. AIR FORCE AND NAVY
www.objectivity.com
L3 lntegrates US Navy's Cooperative Engagement Capability {CEC)
Corporate Headquarters
640 West California Ave .
Suite 210, Sunnyvale,
CA 94086-3624 US
Tel: (408) 992-7100
Fax: (408) 992-7171

and the US Air Force's Network Centric Collaborative Targeting
{NCCT) Systems
Objectivity/DB is the integration platform that L-3 is using for the U.S. Air
Force's Network Centric Collaborative Targeting (NCCT) system and the
U.S. Navy's Cooperative Engagement Capability (CEC) system .
Objectivity/DB is the real-time and scalable "data fusion" repository that
monitors, analyzes, responds and reports on all platforms and assets such
as aircraft, etc., uniquely satisfying the real time data management
requirements for the NCCT system . This integration program is part of the
U.S. Navy's Trident Warrior exercise series, involving an Expeditionary
Strike Group, U.S. Air Force and U.S. Army aircraft, as well as coalition
aircraft.

SucœssStory: Network Centnc Collaborative Targetmg Systems

1 of 4

Copyright © Objectivity, lnc. - Ali Righ1s Reservec::l.

