g

PALANTIR GOTHAM

LAW ENFORCEMENT

Palantir

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

INTRODUCTION
Palantir is the market-leading analytical platform used at the strategic. operational. and tactical levels within
the US government.
Our clients span the intelligence, defense, oversight, and law enforcement communities.
By combining a powerful backend database and server architecture with an intuitive frontend user
interface, Palantir enables you to store, search and share knowledge and information gained in the
field.
Palantir enhances your ability to execute your counter-terrorism. counter-narcotics. counterintelligence, counter-gang, and other anti-crime missions with greater speed and fewer resources.
Palantir integrates data from multiple data sources (e.g. law enforcement databases, open source
reporting, surveillance. etc.) with data gathered by the investigating officer (interview reports, evidence,
biometrics, and more).
Palantir gives the investigator one common picture of what is known to be happening, instead of
separate stovepipes.
Palantir's integrated platform is deployable today and at a fraction of the costs required for a comparable
capability suite.
Palantir is an open and extensible platform and is completely interoperable with all other tools you are
using today

INiVESTIGATIONS

External law
enforcement
da abases

Open So rce
Reporting
Surveillance
Sta 1st1cal and
Geospat1al An lys1s

OPERATIONAL

TACTICAL

De tee

Pers1sten Search

co men/dangerous.
oHenders

81ometncs

Trends and Pat e ns

Evidence

Int rv1ew Reports

Tr eking 1nd1v1ou-1s
th ough he JUSltce
system

Tips a o ead

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

ONLY PALANTIR HELPS OFFICERS, INVESTIGATORS, AND DETECTIVES TO:

Collaborate on analysis and investigations in a
secure environment that fuses and integrates
disparate information sources and data stores.
Share, update and publish information and ideas
throughout your enterprise to find suspects and
targets, solve problems and keep people safe.

Quickly detect correlations in their data and
A series of screenshots from the Palantir Platform . From left to right: the
Map (a space for performing geospatial analysis). the Graph (a space for
performing link/network analysis). the Browser (a space for performing
unstructured analysis). the Object Explorer (a space for top-down analysis
of millions of records). and the Workflow Application (the user interface
for Palantir's built -i n case management system). Additionally, Helper
applications, such as the Timeline, Timewheel, Heatmap and Histogram,
enable temporal, gee-density and statistical analysis and bring further
context to investigations

discover

non-obvious

and trends,

connections,

links

rapidly building out networks

of interest for further examination in the
platform 's

integrated

As

applications.

officers travel and patrol in an area, detailed
collection on every location, person, or event
of interest can be captured and shared to
discover connections and trends . Video feeds,
biometric data and evidence can be stored in
Palantir w ith a geo-reference and data time
group for geographic and temporal analysis.

Resolve entities to give a single common view
of an entity. Palantir allows all this data to be
stored with pictures, summaries, notes and
geo-referenced locations to be accessed by any
authorized person at any time, so you don't have
to relearn the area anew whenever someone
moves to a new unit or department, and so new
officers and transfers can quickly get up to speed .

Quickly
Pa/antir integrates a variety of data sources at law enforcement
deployments, including Suspicious Activity Reports, Records Management
Systems, Criminal Records, Mugshots, Driving Records, Jail Records,
Corrections Databases, text and HTML reports, open source research ,
License Plate Recognition, Calls for Service, Field Interview Information,
and more.

conduct

geographic

searches

to

uncover all events or people in a specific area
over a specific time . Avoid political mistakes
by

storing

people

live

and
and

sharing
what

where

important

relationships

exist

between them . Build a route and search for
incidents along it to plan the safest option.

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

METADATA
UPDATE 3

UPOATE: 3
pd

ag nt

NAME:JA.S •, lltWts

d· 9/23/06 5. 2 pm
bdd Per

1nve~t19auon

!FBI)

NY Drug Ring

UPOAT£: 2
JpdJ•ed 8112105 1 02 p

n Gordo 1 S
~AI N PHO

MAIN P1i0

CJCI

.o~

r

r

With Palantir's revolutionary Revisioning Database technology, every shred of data is tagged with an
extensible set of metadata, including properties such as analyst, source. confidence and classification.
Every change to every shred of data can be tracked and revisioned. If you have a question as to why a link
was created . you can see what the link is. why it was made. and the source. enabling you can contact them
directly if necessary.
Palantir's security model is the most fine-grained and sophisticated on the market. As data sources and
records are brought into Palantir. they are all automatically classified according to admin-configurable
parameters. with the appropriate security and access permissions applied in order to protect sources and
ensure all users see only what they are authorized to see and nothing they are not.
Integrate new data sources easily and visually: In addition to accessing all your natively connected data
sources, Palantir's import process allows law enforcement officers to easily draw in any other type of
data. such as unstructured message traffic. structured identity data. link charts. spreadsheets. phone data.
reports. and documents. You can even drag text to the Palantir import button and make a new document
in Palantir on the fly.
Take data and turn it into usable information : Palantir's Dynamic Ontology enables the system to be flexible
and connect to and understand thousands of types of data relevant to your work. The Palantir Dynamic
Ontology enables an agency or organization to create a customized. flexible, yet structured view of the
world, allowing Palantir to be used for any type of analysis on any type of data.

TOOLS

SEARCH, DISCOVERY AND ANALYTIC TOOLS
Palantir deploys a number of
search applications within its
analytical
platform,
enabling
intuitive searches on structured
and unstructured data.
Search
entities,
events,
documents,
evidence,
old
interviews and reports and
links with powerful filters, "link
by" and "Search Around" query
instruments. Searches can be
performed on different types of
links and entities, and can be built
around custom parameters to
specify what type of link to seek
out and what different types of
entities to return .

The Palantir Heatmap and Timewheel provide added context to geospatial
investigations, allowing investigators to narrow down results to time scales and
geographies of greatest activity and interest.

Results returned in a search can immediately be used as the starting point of new searches, allowing
searches to be expanded quickly.
Palantir's search capabilities run against the entire integrated data repository; searches access multiple and
various sources of information, structured and unstructured.
Complete support for foreign language content and searching.
Notification watches can be built around saved and persistent search parameters so that investigators are
immediately alerted when new relevant information enters the data repository through one of the many
integrated data sources. Keep looking for something as new data comes in, while you continue to work
on other targets .
Assemble presentations and reporting packages with a few clicks of a mouse with Palantir's report
generators, easily configurable for each customer.
Export analytic results with full sourcing information.
Completely interoperable with other analytic tools.

KEY FACTS

OPEN PLATFORM
In addition to Palantir's Map application, the Palantir Platform integrates with all GIS
applications.
Palantir's open APls and flexible data model allow you to customize and extend Palantir,
easily and without additional expense.
Import data in any format: databases, seized media, emails, Excel, Word, PowerPoint,
html, text, csv, xml, pdf, and more.
Works with existing tools including: entity extractors, NLP toolkits, social network
analysis, geospatial, or link analysis tools .

SECURITY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES PROTECTIONS
Palantir enables secure information sharing across agencies and organizations in realtime while providing the strongest protection on privacy and civil liberties.
Pa lantir partners with customers to ensure compliance with 28 CFR part 23.

EXPERIENCE AND SUCCESS
Palantir is the analytical platform and enterprise intelligence backbone in use at the
strategic, operational, and tactical levels within the US Intelligence, Defence, and Law
Enforcement Communities .
Palantir helps financial regulation and oversight organizations by democratizing data
and creating transparency. Palantir is adept at analyzing and countering fraud and
money laundering .
Palantir brings the same rich and adaptive analytic framework designed for all-source
intelligence applications to address the knowledge management and data enrichment
needs of the cyber security community.

SUPPORTING YOUR MISSION

SUPPORTING YOUR MISSION NEEDS
Palantir is the world's leading enterprise analytical platform and intelligence infrastructure.
enabling
a
secure
collaborative
analytical
environment
where
analysts.
officers.
and
investigators can leverage disparate data types from multiple data sources, while sharing
their workflows and discoveries, to build knowledge and situational understanding over time.
Palantir securely brings together data from message traffic, databases, field reporting, suspicious activity
reports, tips and leads, calls for service, mugshots, criminal records, corrections data, jail records,
license plate recognition, field interviews, spreadsheets, text documents, XML files, and virtually any
other format, enabling users to organize data into knowledge and make vital connections. Palantir
Technologies under•stands the unique challenges faced by its users. We recognize the need for large
volume data discovery, collaboration, and controlled information sharing as well as the need to manage
multiple disparate data sources and ensure continuity of information across personnel and time.

SCALE
Palantir is designed to scale cost effectively
Easily handles 100s of millions to billions of entities, events, and documents

BASIC TECHNICAL INFORMATION
Interoperability via SOAP, web services, application APls, and open XML formats
Web deployable
Works over low bandwidth or satellite connections
Quickly creates knowledge and structure from unstructured data
Conforms to SOA
Scales on commodity hardware
Low cost of ownership

TRAINING
Palantir provides a series of customer-specific. mission-specific training videos to allow for just-in-time
training and easy access to refresher material.
Palantir is the easiest to use application in this category. One day of training is all that is required - we
understand that you have a job to do.
Palantir will conduct training anywhere in the world where you need us.

MAINTENANCE/SUPPORT
No special personnel required or excessive overhead
Responsive on-demand support and service to units 24/7 /365 at no extra cost
Celebrated, mission focused support: if you need us, Palantir will be with you anywhere in the world, at
any time.

g Palantir
© Palantir Technologies 2013

us
100 Hamilton Avenue
Suite 300
Palo Alto. CA 94301
USA

UK
27 Soho Square
London

W1D30R

UK
Inquiries: www.palantir.com/contact
www.palantir.com

