g Palantir

ENTERPRISE INTELLIGENCE IN THE FIELD

PALANTIR MOBILE

1

'·,

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The ever-increasing availability of mobile hardware, software and wireless technologies is creating new
opportunities for intelligence, defense and law enforcement entities to expand their capabilities. Integrating
a mobile component into an extensive intelligence infrastructure, however, can be a tricky proposition . The
rapid innovation cycles of commercial mobile technology threaten to make custom IT solutions obsolete
before they are ready for the field. On the other hand, most commerical mobile offerings are not engineered
with the unique needs of the enterprise user in mind, and may be incapable of performing at the level
necessary to ensure success in the most demanding operational environments.
Palantir Mobile is a complete enterprise-grade mobile software solution that is ready for deployment on
Day One. Palantir Mobile was born during Hack Week, an annual event during which Palantir engineers are
let loose for a week to be creative and prototype innovative ideas. After being selected as that year's Hack
Week winner. Palantir Mobile was put into development. and expressly eng ineered to meet the needs of the
intelligence, defense and law enforcement communities while simultaneously providing the greatest value
for its customers.

0.499'>@<'onds

!!!_t.!_ty r_e_sults.(So unt 11__ ---·------Timothy Swanson

Ok
1 ·."f~flf'WT•

J.Nl&.•r)ln. 1~11

If

0'14 71l !l'1 1 !lt!. OCP5 rto01/~ l/l!l 1 1JJ.5J i'ST

~~Cllkr

More 111ro in Palantir: View
·nrnothy__Swdnson in PGWeb

'~"~

....

tl j11'1

,,.,..

e,_, 11'J 1 111llW'S '.Jo'
Tlm04 t-, ~.An .,

Document results (c=o"="=
t 2~-­
Bner - Wolf Gang Member Swanson Released
Bul1elin: Wolf Gang Strikes Again

~.
~R -

A SERIES OF SCREENSHOTS FROM A PALANTIR MOBILE-ENABLED DEVICE. From Left to Right. Blue Force Tracking, messaging between a mobile

user and a base station analyst, a Palant1 1 Object dossier. Palant1r Mobile Web search results, and the Palant1r Mobile search interface

2

ENTERPRISE INTELLIGENCE

ENTERPRISE INTELLIGENCE GOES MOBILE
While enterprise-wide access to the most up - to-date intelligence is invaluable. the problems to which this
intelli gence is applied may vary significantly across functional and organizatio nal levels. The technologies
that are most useful in solving strateg ic problems are not likely to be the same technolog ies that are most
useful in operational or tactical contexts.
A truly optimal mobile capability therefore does not merely replicate the functionality of enterprise software
on a mobile device. It must introduce new functionalities that are optimized for the relevant tasks and that
seamlessly integrate with the rest of the enterprise intelligence infrastructure. Collaboration across echelons
should increase performance at each echelon, making every link in the cha in more poweful and more efficient.
Palantir Mobile was engineered with these considerations in m ind. It was developed not simply to create
"Palantir on a smartphone," but to enable both mobile users in the field and analysts at base stations to
achieve more than either could in isolation .

PALANTIR MOBI LE
MOBILE DATABASE

@

-----

'I
•

., ,
0
I

I
f

I

I

~

~-:

'

I
I

. oo

ANALYSTS' BASE STATIONS
WORKS PACE I MOBILE HEL.PER WITH MA P

- ------·· •QQQ

:
'
t

.

'------------------~--------------- '

I
....

....

__

·----------- -.-- ...,
I

I

""'
I

1111 ·1
IJ~ 111 D-4------• Ll ~ 1111 Cl '4-----...

PALAHrtR WEB

-

(l _

IHI l'.I

(CJ)
\:::)

REVISIOHING
DATABASE.

DISPATC H SERVER(S)AND
PALANTIR PLATFORM

THE PALANTIR MOBILE SERVER ARCHITECTURE seamlessly links mobile devices with the full enterprise intelligence infrastructure

3

SEAMLESS INTEGRATION

SEAMLESS INTEGRATION WITH THE PALANTIR PLATFORM
Palantir Mobile is able to achieve this level of complementarity because it is built on top of the Palantir
Platform. In contrast to software "tools," which are designed to perform a specific task or set of tasks, the
Palantir Platform is composed of a host of next-generation front-end and back-end technologies that can be
combined and recombined to perform a virtually unlimited range of intelligence - related tasks. Furthermore,
because the Palantir Platform is open and extensible, there is a virtually inexhaustible list of additional
capabilities that can be added, or "built on top" of the platform . Palantir Mobile is just such a capability.
Palantir Mobile enables real-time collaboration between commanders or analysts at operations centers or
reachback facilities and operators or investigators in the field. From the Palantir Mobile application, users on
the ground can search the entire repository of data integrated by the Palantir Platform, gaining access to
information that has been enriched by the platform's robust search, discovery and analytic capabilities. The
Mobile helper in the Palantir Workspace gives team leaders (at a Response Operation Center. for instance)
the ability to monitor, coordinate, and communicate with field units equipped with Palantir Mobile devices.
Palantir engineers built these capabilities without compromising on the security, privacy, and access control
that are central to the Palantir Platform . All communications between the devices and the mobile server are
secured with SSL and all devices can be remotely wiped. which are just two of the many features that address
the demanding security needs in the wireless space.
Palantir Mobile works on commercially available networks and operational networks alike. During testing
in the field with portable wireless networks (e.g ., overhead , mesh) Palantir Mobile achieved ease of use and
performance on par with US commercial providers.

4

SUPERIOR SITUATIONAL AWARENESS

SUPERIOR SITUATIONAL AWARENESS
Palantir Mobile comprises a number of different technolog ies that provide superior situational awareness for
forward deployed teams and individuals by enabling the rapid two-way flow of information between mobile
users and reachback support.
Blue Force Tracking in Palantir Mobile is powered in part by the GPS capabilities of commercially available
smartphones. allowing analysts at base stations and mobile users in the field to share a continually updated
map of the area of operations. including the current locations of all Palantir Mobile users.
Palantir Mobile also transforms the built-in cameras of commercially available smartphones into powerful
instruments of intelligence gathering and dissemination. Using a custom-engineered text messaging capability,
users in the field can send messages and images back to base stations where analysts can incorporate this new
data into their investigations as it arrives. Users at base can respond quickly to requests for information from
the field by pushing images out to mobile users. These combined capabilities make it easier to coordinate
action across a host of different operational environments.

BLUE FORCE TRACKING in the Mobile Helper at a base station (left) and in the Palant1r Mobile app (right) Users can track all mobile users. all
members of a team. or their own location

5

INTELLIGENCE UNIFIED

INTELLIGENCE UNIFIED, ENTERPRISE-WIDE
Palantir Mobile moves enterprises one step closer to producing a single, shared intelligence picture that can
be accessed and updated across every level of the organization .
The Palantir Platform rapidly connects to and integrates data from any type of system, structured or
unstructured . Palantir has deep experience integrating with modern and legacy data systems used in both
government and commercial enterprises. Our unified data architecture allows analysts to make discoveries
across organizational and repository boundaries and to establish connections based upon information from
a variety of public and non-public data sources.
Palantir's Nexus Peering technology allows organizations to collaborate and share not only raw data but also
analyses across teams, organizations, and countries. We have tested this capab ility with great success across
an array of challenging environments, including trans-continental investigations and disconnected forward
operations in the battlefield . Setting up "peering " between multiple Palantir instances lets organ izations share
information quickly and securely.
Today, Palantir Mobile puts enterprise intelligence in the hands of individuals on the front lines and gives
analysts at all levels real - time access to the latest information from the field . Palantir bridges the functional
and organizational divides that typically make enterprise-wide intelligence gathering and sharing efforts so
fragmented. Palantir Mobile is the latest example of how the Silicon Valley culture of continuous innovation
can deliver revolutionary technologies to the intelligence, defense and law enforcement communities.

6

INTELLIGENCE UNIF IED

ENTERPRISE
INTELLIGENCE

•
'

'

.
'

..
'

•
STRATEGY

OPERATIONS

TACTICS

PALANTIR CREATES A SINGLE, SHARED INTELLIGENCE PICTURE that can be accessed and updated at any point-from strategy to operations to
tactics. from base stations to 1ndiv1duals in the field. and from data collection to decision making

7

g Palantir
© Palantir Technologies 2013

us
Palantir Technologies
100 Hamilton Ave.
Suite 300
Palo Alto, CA 94301

UK
27 Soho Square
London

W1D30R

UK
Inquiries: www.palantir.com/contact
www.palantir.com

8

