With safe and
smart city model,
Praline aims to provide 7x24
service in high quality in 81
cities of Turkey; with the development of technological trends
such as "speed'', "data", "infra structure" and "sensor".

Pro[ ine

-

Parallel to
rapidly
growing urban
population ,
emerging needs for security
solutions put governments in
a position to use more than
one security technology
through a single platform.

Sistemleri A.$.
("Praline") was established as
System Integrator (Enterprise IT
Solutions, Advanced Search Solutions) in 2003 , and has become a
technology provider company with
its wide ranging solutions
(Biometric Solutions, Online
Customer Relationship Management
Platform, Safe City Solutions).

PR 0 LINE CCM is an automated vehicle identification system which has
been specifically developed to identify license plates based on image processing of vehicle images retrieved from video cameras. The system transfers
images to main server from onsite monitoring components with 99% success
and can detect vehicles with a speed value up to 180km I h.

During vehicle plate detection process,

following param-

eters can be determined for each vehicle:
•Content of license plate and country origin
•Classification of the identified vehicle (car, van, truck, bus)
• Brand, type and color of the vehicle

Additionally,to

the certain
part of images retrieved several
information such as license plate,
time stamp, name of vehicle plate
capturing point, number of the
correct readings till the disappearance of the car from the
vehicle plate capturing point OCR
scores may be written, if needed.

PR 0 LI NE ( ( M

consists of one or more cameras with a proper resolution , hardware and software
components for data processing speed measurement device, alarm detection and warning devices as well as data
communication device in a special housing to protect from harsh environment such as water and shock which shall be
located close to traffic lights and assisted with flash/infrared lamps for night view. Furthermore, based on already
specified hardware and software components enabling remote management, Proline CCM may issue civil penalty noti fications to the drivers who caused speed or red light violation. Proline CCM is also able to create statistical reports.

BASED ON

data retrieved from inductive sensors embedded to asphalt, Proline CCM may observe traffic flow
and traffic lights. Inductive sensors are positioned just before the pedestrian crossings. Should the traffic light become
red, the system will be activated. Once it is activated , vehicles passing through inductive sensors with a speed higher
than permitted speed limit triggers the cameras so that it can be easily detected.

0 N( E PR 0 LINE (CM

is activated at least two images are taken. The first image indicates the
vehicle just before the stop line where pedestrian cross line, if available, corresponding vehicle and red light are
also covered. The second image indicates vehicle passing through the cross road. In addition to already retrieved
images, the image of violating vehicle is also stored .

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION such as date, time , place, time after activation of red light,
speed of vehicle and speed limit etc are also inserted to the already taken image. Retrieved images and videos are forwarded Red Light and Speed Violation Management Center. System automatically forwards images related to violations
to the management center. Having confirmed these violation cases by an operator, penalty notifications are created
automatically including images and further details of violation.

Emergency Lane Violation ManaQement System is working with fixed full

HD cameras, radar infrared sensor, video analytic server and rerated licenses.

Prol ine CCM

detects the vehicle entering to the emergency lane automatically. Accordingly it is sending the
vehicle image and captures video stream length of 5 seconds with identified plate number to the main control server
automatically. Vehicle speed is detecting by a Speed Radar system that accuracy is reliable ..

StoraQe unit

in the field can store HD video records of one week time length and plate information of
violated veli'icle for one year. In case of any connectivity problem, it is transferring already stored data to main server
automatically.
• With sophisticated reporting filters such as time, speed, several vehicle specific parameters, the user is able to
execute searches accordingly.
• The system can be serve more than one control centre if required.

