The Proteus Project is an integrated modern system designed
for counterterrorism and rescue operations.
Overcoming technological barriers and integrating the innovative
solutions from the field of robotics, the Proteus system
will set a new standard in crisis and security management.
Technological and operational requirements of the Proteus system
were defined with cooperation with potential future users,
for example: The Pol ice, The State Fire Service.
The Proteus system will consist of combined and cooperating
elements that will guarantee effectiveness in almost
every kind of crisis threat. Project is intendend to finish in 201 3.

~C>C31L=

COMMAND
c=NTR=

Poznan University of Technology
Institute of Radioelectronics of Warsaw University of Technology,
Tests: Scientific and Research Centre of Fire Protection

A cutting-edge command centre, mounted
on a truck chassis, equipped with a range
of solutions from the fields of telecommunications and information technology also
taking advantage of satellite techniques.
This is where is performed processing
and analysis of data provided by the remaining Proteus components such as
an unmanned aerial vehicle or mobile
robots . As a result, the Mobile Command
Centre will function as a hi-tech mobile
system for data acquisition, pro-cessing
and distribution, being an integral element
of the complex system of unique
functionality.

•

A vehicle allowing unfolding a cutting edge stand-alone command post near
the operation site

•

Communications systems that guarantee effective cooperation with the remaining system components and other
units participating in action, and provide
commun ication with stationary command
staffs.

•

IT solutions to provide the person
in command with the best possible
environment for situation assessment,
including elements of virtual reality

•

Access to external databases and
expert systems which facilitate evaluation and forecasting of situation
development to aid the process
of decision making

• The e x pert system featured with multicriteria analysis of a situation

LJNM/.\NN2D
/.\2Rl/.\L V2HIC:L2 (LJ/.\V)

Poznan University of Technology
Institute of Radioelectronics of Warsaw University of Technology, Institute of Electronic Materials Technology,
Tests: Scientific and Research Centre of Fire Protection

>> Very large range
and altitude

The task of the unmanned aerial vehicle
will be observation and gathering of data
from regions under threat, and their
transmission to the Mobile Command
Centre . It will be equipped with a specialized head incorporating: video camera,
thermovision camera, laser distance meter, lighting and an innovative flame sensor.
Also mounted on-board will be embedded
computers for flight control and recording
flight parameters, as well as for picture
analysis which will enable recognition
of vehicles and their tracking . The unmanned airplane will be a semi-autonomous
unit - owing to the capability of moving
along a prescribed flight path it will not
require continuous supervision from
an operator, nor his prior training
in pilotage.

•

Wing span : 6.2 m

•

Length: 2.85 m

•

Maximum take-off mass: 40 kg

•

Flight duration: B h (combustion engine)

• Travel speed: 1 00 km/ h
•

Maximum altitude: 4000 m

•

Minimum size of a landing zone:
50 x 50 m (catapult take-off,
parachute landing)

•

Communication range: up to 50 km

•

Equipped with optical head with day-l ight
(36 x zoom) and thermovision cameras

SM/.\LL
1':10i31LC:: R O S O i

Industrial Research Institute for Automation and Measurements
The D ivision of Theory of Machines and Robots of Warsaw University of Technology, Institute of Radioelectron ics
of Warsaw University of Technology, Tests: Scientific and Research Centre of Fire Protection

Collapsed spaces and rubble, areas
exposed to threat of chemical or biological contamination are the places at which
life and health of rescuers is especially put
in danger. Therefore within the Proteus
Project will be dev eloped a small-size mobile robot dedicated to inspection of hardly
accessible places, enabled by an innovative
locomotion system based on four independently driven caterpillars. The robot
will be also equipped with a specialized
device for collecting samples of soil ,
liquid or air from the operation site to be
subsequently carried to a laboratory
for analysis .

•

Innov ati v e caterpillar - based locomotion
system allowing movement in difficult
terrain and negotiation of obstacles
of height up to 0.5 m.

•

Robot mass : 55 kg.

•

Dimensions : 80 x 58 x 30 cm
CL x W x HJ

•

Possibility of on-board installation
of sensors, includ ing the devi ce
for sampling soil, liquids and air

•

Equipped with video cameras
and a thermovision camera

r--:-12 L::> I LJ M
r--:-1c:::::>C3IL2 R c:::::> C3 c:::::> T

Industrial R esea r ch Institute fo r Auto m a tion e nd M easurem e n ts
The Division of Theory of Machines and Robots of Warsaw University of Technology, Institute of R adioelectronics
of Warsaw University of Technology, Tests: Scientific and Research Centre of Fire Protection

Actions conducted by rescue and public
security services o~en pose a risk of loss
of health or even life to the directly involved
persons. Therefore one of the robots
included in the Proteus system will be
an intervention robot. The robot will be
capable of replacing or supporting a human
at the most dangerous tasks, e.g.,
at neutralisation of explosive charges.

•

Caterpillar drive system allowing motion
in rough terrain and negotiation of kerbs
and stairs

•

Robot mass: approx. 65 kg

•

Dimensions: 1 00 x 60 x 60 cm
CL x W x HJ

•

Equipped with manipulator of 2 m range
and maximum load capacity of nearly
28 kg

•

Possibility of on-board installation
of various sensors, e.g., the chemical
sensor or explosive charges sensor

•

Equipped with video cameras
and a thermovision camera

L/.\RGC:
~C>C31L2

RC>C3C>T

>> An intervention
robot, the largest
of robots in the
Proteus Project

>> Possibility of carrying
loads of rnass up to
40 kg

Industria l R esearch Institute for Automation and Measurements
The Division of Theory of Machines and Robots of Warsaw University of Technology, Institute of Radioelectronics
of Warsaw University of Technology, Tests: S cientific and Research Centre of Fire Protection

This robot is the largest one of constructed within the Proteus Project.
It will be capable of lining and carrying
loads of significant mass and size. High
speed and the locomotion system ensuring
outstanding mobility enable ag ile and quick
operation in difficult unpaved terrain.
Selected robot functions will be realized
in the autonomy mode, e . g. moving from
one place to another. This feature
will make steering and operation of the
large robot even more convenient.

•

Spec ial type of suspension to guarantee
excellent mobil it y in rough and hilly terrain

•

High max imum speed: abo v e 10 km/ h

•

Robot mass: approx. 300 kg

•

D imens ions: 1 50 x 80 x 1 00 cm
CL x W x HJ

•

Autonomy module to assist in robot
steering and operation or e v en replace
an operator in some situations

•

Equipped with foam based fire
e x tinguisher (optional)

•

Man ipu lator of high funct ionality , range
of 2 . 5 m and max imum load capaci ty
of ca . 40 k g . A replaceab le t ip of the
manipulator for installation of v ar ious
tools. e . g . metal shears

1':10i31L..2 R O S O i
O?C::R/.\TOR CC::NTRC::

Industrial Research Institute for Automation and Measurements
Institute of Radioelectronics of Warsaw University of Technology, Tests: Scientific and Research Centre

of Fire Protection

To the site of action all robots will be carried by the Mobile Robot Operator Centre mounted on a chassis of a truck. The
vehicle will be equ ipped with: devices for
rapid loading and unloading robots', portable lightweight robot operator consoles
and the system of communications and
data exchange with the Mobile Command
Centre.

•

Innovative lightweight truck vehicle
with high mobility

•

Rear for medium large robots

•

Side ramp for the small robot

•

Stationary and portable robot operator
consoles

•

System of communications and data
exchange with the remaining elements
of the Proteus system

?C:RSONAL SC:NSORS
SC:TS (?SS)

Space Research Centre of the Polish Academy of Sciences
Tests: Scientific and Research Centre of F ire Protection

Personal Sensors Sets are radiotele phones equipped with localisation sensors
as well as sensors for monitoring safety
of people involved in action - heart-rate
sensor, motion sensor, temperature and
humidity sensor. Owing to them, rescuers'
positions and working conditions will be
presented graphically on a digital map
in the Mobile Command Centre , enabling
safe and effective management of available
resources .

•

Based on orig inal equipment:
Motorola DP 3600/ 3601

•

Mass : BOO g

•

Power Supply : NiMH Battery 1 300 mAH
and 4 R6[AAJ NiMH Batteries
2650 mAH

•

Operating time: min . 5 hours

•

Operating temperature : - 30° C /+ 60° C

t-:-1 c:::::> a I L = R c:::::> a c:::::> T
SIM LJ L /.\Tc:::> R

Industrial Research Institute for Automation and Measurements
The Institute of Aeronautics and Applied Mechanics of Warsaw University of Technology,
Tests: Scientific and Research Centre of Fire Protection

The Mobile Robot Simulator will play
the role of a training and testing centre
in the Proteus system. Owing to the visu alisation solutions, the simulator will reproduce the operating environment of the
robot with high fidelity. One of the most
important simulator functions will be training of robot operators and their preparation for future operational actions in any
conditions. The important tasks will also
include aiding the design and development
activities and performing simulation investigations of moving objects.
Basic elements of the device will be a semispherical display supported with a threechannel visualisation system and the virtual
model of the robot. The training station
will be directly connected to the control
panel of the instructor supervising on-line
the process of training or testing.

COMML.JNIC/.\TION S

The main goal for the communications system developed within the Proteus Project
is to guarantee effective and efficient methods of communication and data exchange.
A well-developed system of communication is one of the most important aspects
providing integrity of the whole system.
The communications will be realized, among
others, by means of radio CWiMaxJ, satellite and G SM communications systems.
Primary tasks of the developed communications system are :
•

Providing communication between robots, robot operator consoles and the
Mobile Robot Operator Centre [transmission of control commands, picture
and data from robots' on-board sensors)

•

Providing communication between the
MCC and the unmanned aerial vehicle

•

Catering for data transmission between
the MCC and the Mobile Robot Opera tor Centre (exchange of information on
robots' localisation, transmission of data
from robot on-board sensors)

•

Providing voice communication between
all participants of an operation and collection of data from Personal Sensors
Sets

•

Prov iding broadband link to external
networks allowing both use of diverse
external knowledge sources and access
to external telecommunications and
state administration networks

Institute of Radioelectronics of Warsaw University of Technology
Industrial Research Institute for Automation and Measurements

Within the Proteus Project the sensors
will be used including both the innovative
authored solutions as well as solutions
existing on the market. A novel solution
is the "flame sensor", which will be mounted on-board the Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
CUAVJ. By sweeping the region with its
beam, the sensor will allow detection
of the fire source and identification of type
of the substance being burned. Another
sensor developed within the Project
is the chemical sensor enabling detection
of dangerous gases. A unique solution
of the Proteus system is the Universal
Interface (UIJ.
It makes possible the installation of sensor of any kind on any robot, based
on the "plug and play" principle .

This unlocks the possibility of unconstrained reconfiguration of the robot
according to user needs.
In the Proteus system the following
sensors will be available:
•

flame sensor CUAVJ
chemical sensor
e x plosive materials sensor
radiological sensors for alpha.
beta and gamma radiation
laser distance measurement device

•

v ideo camera and thermovision camera

•

directional microphone

Military Unive rsity of Tec h nology
Institute of Electronic Materials Technology. The Division of Theory of Machines and Robots of Warsaw U niversity
of Technology, Faculty of Materials Science and Engineering of Warsaw University of Technology, Space R esearch
Centre of the Polish Academy of Sciences , Tests: Scientific and Research Centre of Fire P rotection

proteus @projektproteus . pl

www. projektproteus . pl

