Mediation Device for Lawful Interception
RCS Mediation Systems are fully compatible with all transport technologies (including ISDN, SS?, CDMA, GSM, UMTS, GPRS,
CDMA2000, SIP, H.323, MGCP).
On the handover side, the RCS MD family interfaces with all major standards including ETSI, GALEA, GHIS and many custom national standards.

Mediation Systems for ISDN/SS7 / ISUP telephony
RCS wire line Mediation Devices can be tailored to interface with any vendor technology and any necessary conversions and handover
management made for both Intercepted contents and relevant call data.
RCS wire line Mediation Devices provide Call Content buffering to increase the reliability of the national Lawful Interception system and
counter any temporary unavailability of the transport network or Law Enforcement Monitoring Facilities.
The flexible architecture can assimilate probing capabilities within the LI network; this is sometimes needed to meet requirements not natively
supported by switches (e.g. tracking uncompleted and thus unbillable calls).

NWOMgmt
Functions

Administration
&Monltortng
Function

Mediation Systems for mobile telephony
With RCS Mediation Devices for mobile telephony you can integrate several data sources to deliver all requested Lawful Interception information
over the same egress channel .
RCS mobile telephony Mediation Devices allow you to collect data from the relevant Mediation device in ISP sources, then coordinate the
handover of basic and extended interception info.

Mediation Systems for GPRS/ UMTS data
RCS Mediation Devices are designed to interface with most network data gateways.
RCS MD are compatible with the protocols used by most leading mobile switch providers; on the handover side, both ETSI and GALEA egress
standards are available.

Mediation Systems for ISP architectures
The RCS ISP Mediation Devices family includes native support for CISCO, JUNIPER, LUCENT interception functions as well as interface capability
for RCS MIPS probes, normally employed as MD's in an intelligent distribution system implemented to provide RADIUS authentication detection.
RCS Mediation Devices can assimilate some internet probes within the same architecture to match interception requirements, without breaking
the bank or substantially altering network layout

Mediation Systems for VoIP architectures
RCS VoIP MDs come in two different versions:
• IP VoIP Mediations deliver intercepted data as raw IP traffic, when Internet monitoring centres are presumably used at Law Enforcement level.
• Alternatively, when standard telephone handover is required, the RCS "hybrid" design means VoIP call contents can also be transferred to
standard analogue recorders or ISDN monitoring centres.

