-

SIGNAL PROCESSING 10 : FPGA EXPERTISE

SIGNAL PROCESSING IQ : FPGA EXPERTISE
RFEL LTD

SPECIALISTS IN HIGH SPEED AND LOW POWER SIGNAL PROCESSING FOR FPGA

RFEL's Engineers form a highly flexible team, strongly committed to realising the highest standards
of product quality and to continuously striving to push the limits of the latest technology. This
mind-set and an optimal mixture of skill-sets including systems, modelling, firmware, software and
board design, founded on over 300 man-years of industrial experience in the team, have combined to
create world class and multi award winning products and helped grateful clients to create
ground-breaking systems.

» CONSULTANCY
Make use of RFEL' s full engineering expertise through RFEL's technical consultancy services. These
services are accessed through extensive technology or feasibility studies, on -site FPGA and VHDL
consultancy, digital signal and video processing algorithm development orVHDL code optimisation
and reviewing. Boost your development results today by applying our multi-award winning FPGA
and system expertise to ensure improved design efficiency within your internal developments.

» SIGNAL AND VIDEO PROCESSING HARDWARE
RFEL offers FPGA based Signal Processing and Real-Time Video Processing Hardware Solutions
which deliver fully tested and qualified Sub-Systems. Available as fully qualified stand-alone
products, or as OEM versions ready for integration, RFEL' s hardware supports you by de-risking
product development plans and by improving system performance.

» FPGA IP CORES
RFEL's off-the -shelf FPGA IP Cores include a comprehensive range of digital signal processing and
video processing IP-Cores. The complexity ranges from small, optimised, system support IP-Cores
called Corelets, to complex and feature-rich , multi -award winning System-on -Chip designs.

» DESIGN SERVICES
RFEL offers a wide range of Design Services. Designs can be developed in partnership with a
customer to a high -level user-orientated brief, or can be produced in response to a detailed
specification. High quality traceability is assured throughout and in -house skills and tools are
employed for all stages of the design process, includ ing FPGA design, PCB and software engineering.

£ XILINX.
ALLIANCE PROGRAM
ICERTIFIED MEMBER - BASE

~
t
j itera
Design Services

~

MathWorks

___,ANetwor~

0

CERT IFICATION
INTERNATI ONAL

Partner

"""''

Cert"'°:Cl/SJOJ

Benefits

Daylight/EO

Enhanced and fused, with false colour IR

» Real-time, Size/Weight/Power

optimised processing platform
» Increases range of identification
»

Increases situational
awareness in all conditions

»

Reduces operator workload

» Reduces data bandwidth
Infrared

© RFEL Li mited. Al l rights reserved

SIGNAL PROCESSING IQ : FPGA EXPERTISE

For the military and security user
who needs improved surveillance
and identification performance in a
range of missions and applications,
the HALO-FSE video processing
platform offers a state-of-the-art
multi-channel video Fusion
capability, augmented by high
performance motion Stabilisation
and Image Enhancement functions.
HALO-FSE provides specialist users with
enhanced vision for day I night operation
and under poor weather and in-theatre
conditions, leading to a significant
operational advantage. It is packaged in
a small, robust and low-power standards
qualified hardware format designed for
ease of integration with modern and
legacy vision systems. The flexibility
provided through HALO-FSE offers military
and security users a highly cost-effective
means of enhancing situational awareness
through legacy and in-service cameras as
well as new procurements.
Registration and Fusion Processing

High performance registration is delivered
through a combination of support for
factory alignment and automated
feature-based processing. The level
of registration accuracy underpins a
state-of-the-art video fusion design

which coherently combines information
from two video sources. Typically, these
sources are from the visible and infrared
spectral bands although different input
combinations are possible. The fusion
process increases the user's situational
awareness, particularly under difficult
or complicated viewing conditions.
Additional benefits afforded include
enhanced target detection and
recognition whilst reducing the user's
workload and minimising demands on
the ava ilable data bandwidth.

Benefits

» Real-time, Size/Weight/Power
optimised processing platform

» Increases range of identification

» Increases situational awareness
in all conditions

» Reduces operator workload
» Reduces data bandwidth
Features

» Designed, bui lt and tested to
military specifications

Stabilisation

Motion stabilisation is performed in
real-time and entirely electronically on
the HALO-FSE output. The algorithm
compensates for overall x-y shift and roll
of a scene, improving end-user vision and
reducing work-load. Object tracking may
be improved in certa in down-stream
tracking applications.
Image Enhancement

A range of advanced image enhancement
processing functions is included to assure
the highest quality video output. These
functions include noise reduction,
correction of image distortion, contrast
enhancement, and digital zoom. HALO-FSE
allows the user to create a bespoke output
using configurable full graphic or symbolic
overlays and data formatting options
which can be set during installation and
then stored in non-volatile memory.

» 2 input and 2 output video ports
(supports all formats up to Full HD)

» High performance and robust
video processing on either one
or two video channels

» Base functionality includes image
fusion, electronic stabilisation,
image enhancement, digital zoom,
video compression and user specific
display overlays

» Real-time and low-latency video
processing (up to 60Hz full frame
and lSOHz for region of interest)

» Interoperable with Industry and Mil
Standard video distribution systems
and cameras: GigE, Camera Link, and
Analogue/CCTV amongst others

» Low power.

Specifications
Video Input

GigE, Cameralink, Def Stan 00-82, SDI or CVBS

Video Output

GigE, Cameralink, SDI, CVBS or VESA System Diagnostics

Size and Weight

1osmm • 1osmm • 8omm nominal (connector dimensions may vary)< goog

Power Supply

4.7 - 27V DC@ o.60 - 0.11A

Standard compliance

• Compatible with Def-Stan 23-09 (General Vehicle Architecture)
• Qualification to DEF STAN 00-35 & 59-411(EMC)
• CE(lndustrial)

Also available as lSOmm x 7Smm OEM board and gomm x 7Smm system-on-module

Company background

RFEL Ltd is a UK-based electronic systems designer, providing high specification signal, image and video processing IP solutions that run on
FPGAs, as well as supplying digital receiver and complete product solutions for the defense, communications and homeland security markets.
RFEL has a range of capabilities for other real-time video enhancement processing functions and application specific video processing and a
wide range of hardware and programmable turn-key system solutions which can be tailored to any customer specific requirement.

•

THE QUEEN'S AWARDS
FOR ENTERPRISE:
INNOVATION

2009

•

~ THE QUEEN'S AWARDS
FOR ENTERPRISE:

RFEL Limited
Unit B, The Apex, St Cross Business Park, Newport, Isle of Wight P030 SXW, UK

INNOVATION

2012

T +44 (0)1983 216600 F +44 (0)1983 216611 E info@rfel.com www.rfel.com

High quality services and products for Image
Processing System designers, including:
» Image processing expertise across a range of applications
• Defence

Stabilisation

• Security and surveillance
• Industrial, automotive and simulation vision
or display systems

» High performance, optimised standard FPGA IP Cores
» System modelling and consultancy services

» Low power and flexible

»

Easily customised

» Low latency, programmable solutions

© RFEL Limited. All rights reserved

SIGNAL PROCESS I NG IQ : FPGA EXPERTISE

The challenges facing designers of modern defence, security and other
machine vision systems are increasing exponentially.
The available resolutions and frame rates are
rapidly increasing, whilst end-user
expectations are becoming more soph isticated,
driven by a ubiquity of video information
appearing in increasingly embedded, mobile
and/or critical systems. RFEL offers a range of
high quality image processing solutions to
meet these challenges and deliver the
performance required by users.
RFEL award w inning capabil ities in low-power,
optimised FPGA IP cores have been deployed
to great effect across the Digital Signal
Processing application domain for 12 years.
Whether the requirement is for a single
low-risk, pre-qualified standard image
processing building block to integrate into an
embedded product, or if it is for a complete
turn -key product design service, including
preliminary critical performance studies and
technology consu ltancy, RFEL has the proven
solutions to assist.
Standard software interface frameworks may
be provided to allow the system designer to
utilise RFEL FPGA IP w ith little or no FPGA
experience. RFEL can also mod ify standard
products to optimally meet the requirements
of constrained resources or legacy platforms.

Example Image Processing Capabilities

Stabilisation

Digital Rotation

Motion Stabilisation is an example of a
complex and high performance system
core. Stabilisation is performed in
real -time and ent irely electronically.
The algorithm compensates for overall
x-y sh ift and roll of a scene, improving
end-user vision and reducing work-load.
Complex, adaptive system configurations
are available that utilise embedded
software elements closely coupled to
the FPGA functions, typically supplied
as system -on -module designs.

This IP core offers an alternative to
mechanical rotation hardware with state
of the art digital processing. Many of the
digital rotation IP core features can be
configured while the system is still
running, keeping the user fully in control.
Reliable, maintenance-free and targeted
to low-cost FPGA devices.
Digital Re-sizing
RFEL's Digital Zoom (DZ) core is a compelling
solution in the field of image magnification.
It far exceeds the power efficiency and
determinism of software-based solutions.
High-performance image processing
systems can now crop and enlarge
dynamically.

Capabilities

» Image processing design expertise
»

Matlab modelling

»

World -class optim ised FPGA design

» High quality, formal software design

Image Enhancement
A range of advanced image enhancement
processing functions is available to assure
the highest quality video output. These
functions include noise reduction, correction
of image distortion, contrast enhancement,
and digital re-sizing and full graphic or
symbolic overlays.

» Interface and hardware design
» Multi-layer PCB & Rugged design

» Product compliance expertise
» Re-usable and pre-qualified
IP components.

Example IP Cores

» Run -time programmable

» Dynamically programmable

» Sub-degree angle of rotation

» Real-time, very low-l atency

Real-time, low-latency computation

» Barrel and pincushion correction

» Three selectable HD input streams

»

» Two modes of pixel interpolation

» Support for both up-scaling

» HD (1920x1080) or SD (720xS76)

» Run-time programmable

zoom window

computation

on all lens types

and down-scaling.

»

A range of supported video formats.

» Efficient memory interfacing

A range of supported video formats

»

Native camera interfaces

»

»

Efficient memory interfacing

» Bilinear interpolation support

» Optim ised for low-cost memory

»

Optimised for low-cost memory

»

»

Optional cyl indrical projection function

»

Simplified, 90• rotation variant avai lable

»

Compatibil ity calibration via OPENCV 2.3

No need for externa I memory

Company background
RFEL Ltd is a UK-based electronic systems designer, providing high specification signal, image and video processing IP solutions that run on
FPGAs, as well as supplying digital receiver and complete product solutions for the defense, communications and homeland secu rity markets.
RFEL has a range of capabilities for other real-time video enhancement processing functions and application specific video processing and a
wide range of hardware and programmable turn-key system solutions which can be tailored to any customer specific requirement.

•

THE QUEEN'S AWARDS
FOR ENTERPRISE:

INNOVATION
2009

•

~

RFEL Limited
THE QUEEN 'S AWARDS
FOR ENTERPRISE:

Unit B, The Apex, St Cross Business Park, Newport, Isle of Wight P030 SXW, UK

INNOVATION
2012

T +44 (0)1983 216600 F +44 (0)1983 216611 E info@rfel.com w-.rfel.com

»

Highest FPGA Efficiency

»

Hardware Proven IP

» Award Winning Innovation
)) SWaP+C Optimised

»

On Time, On Budget Delivery

»

100% ITAR Free

