Compact 'N Channel' High Frequency
Superresolution Direction Finding and
Enhanced Signal Copy

A Siemens Company

Background
Over the last decade Roke Manor Research has established itself as a world leader in advanced superresolution
DF systems and associated digital adaptive beamforming for enhanced signal reception. Many systems
are in operational use at a range of locations around the world. The technology has demonstrated excellent
performance and is regarded as providing the highest standard of Direction Finding (OF) capability.

The Technology
The N Channel collection hardware employed to date for these systems has comprised of a rack of VXI double
superhet HF receivers, associated VXI PC controller and ancillary VXI modules for calibration.
Due to the recent advances in ADC
technology i t i s now possible to
offer a direct sampling 'N Channel'
hardware solution at a fraction of the
cost, size and power consumption
of the W I equipments. In addition
the 0 to 30MHz wideband nature of
the receivers provides a powerful
wideband signal acquisition capability.
The n e w ' c o m p a c t N C h a n n e l
hardware' is able to directly support
all our production superresolution
DF and E-copy code.

9 channel collection with USB 2 interface for data transfer and control

Features
• Standard product has 9 x HF (0-30MHz) coherent, direct digitising, receivers all clocked from a common
80MHz source. (Straightforward extension to more receiver channels).
• Supports both wideband and narrow band data.
- In wideband mode, blocks of the full 30MHz HF spectrum are transferred over the data interface
In narrow band mode continuous N channel data is streamed over the interface.
- Up to 4 simultaneous narrow band frequency channels are supported simultaneously via 4 channel digital
down converters.
- For the USB2 interface up to 200kHz bandwidth can be continuously streamed for the 9 receiver system
- Both wideband and narrow band modes can be supported simultaneously.
• Presently employs a USB2 interface for both data transfer and control but faster interfaces (e.g. Gigabit
Ethernet) are in development.
• Fully supports our current production Superresolution Direction Finding (SRDF) and E-copy software (the
hardware mimics an N channel VXI receiver rack).
• New energy detection provided for short duration signals.
• Each receiver includes a powerful FPGA to perform, for example, an 8k point FFT.

/CONTINUED
See Resilient Networks, Miniature Radar Altimeters,
'Spinner' — and our other n e w technologies on stand 9 7 5

Roke
Manor
Research

Owned by Siemens, our client base includes Siemens, other companies
and Government departments. Projects range from feasibility studies to
designs for high volume manufacture. In addition, low volume manufacture
can be undertaken in-house.
We bring a competitive edge to our clients' by applying world-class talent to
create innovative and timely solutions that meet their development needs.
Roke Manor Research is a unique company with a rich heritage and exceptional
people. It is a business which prides itself on pioneering innovation and producing
first-class technical solutions to demanding customer problems across commercial
and defence arenas.
This comes from a foundation of world-class science and engineering expertise
and an enviable breadth of knowledge and skill. In addition to technological
excellence, the company embraces an entrepreneurial culture that balances
engineering excellence, customer focus, business acumen and first-class project
management skills.
Managing Director, Paul Stein appointed in 1996, has overseen the growth of
business from El 9m to over E40m. Paul is a member of the Ministry of Defence
Scientific Advisory Council and sits on the South-East Science and Technology
Advisory Council.

ENDS

For further information please contact
Roger Holtby, Marketing Communications Manager
Roke Manor Research
Tel +44 (0)1794 833455
Email roger hollby©roke co uk
Roke M a n o r Research http //www roke co.uk

David Salter, Account Executive
Defence, Roke Manor Research
Tel +44 (0)1794 833332
Email david salter@roke co uk

