Digital Wideband Receiver

A Siemens Company

Introduction
Roke Manor's Digital Wideband Receiver digitises a 30 MHz band o f spectrum and down-converts 4
programmable narrowband channels to complex base-band. The receiver simultaneously transfers both
snap-shots of the wideband signal and 4 narrowband signal streams over a industry-standard USB2 interface to
a PC for further signal processing.
Applications of the receiver include standard HF receivers, N-channel receivers, frequency hopping systems and
wideband spectrum monitoring systems.

Features
• 4 analogue R F i n p u t s (providing incremental
analogue signal processing):
- direct input to the 14 bit, 80MHz A/D converter
(for general purpose applications, e.g. VHF / UHF
reception via under-sampling or with an external
RF down-converter),
- input via digitally controlled gain block (-25 to +34dB),
- input via 30MHz anti-alias filter,
- input via noise-shaping filter for improved dynamic
range (antenna dependent).

• VVideband and narrowband signals are multiplexed
together and transferred over an industry-standard
USB2 interface t o a P C f o r further processing

• 256K sample buffer to capture snapshots of the
wideband signal.

• Receiver control via PC / embedded processor

• 4 channel digital down-conversion to complex base-band
- Programmable centre frequency, bandwidth and
sample rate,
• Programmable decimation filters to match signal
bandwidth and shape,
- Capable of extracting WCDMA I DECT / GSM etc
bandwidths.

• Auxiliary connector for mezzanine card to implement
additional custom functions.

(demodulation / decoding)
- Programmable frame format to select narrowband
channels and wideband signal transfer rate.
• Modular interface permits alternative interfaces
(eg to DSPs) to be developed.
• Scalable FPGA capable of DSP functions eg FFTs
for spectrum monitoring applications.
through USB2 or general purpose interface
- Configures analogue gain, digital down-converters
and output frame format.

/CONTINUED
See Resilient Networks, Miniature Radar Altimeters,
'Spinner' — and our other n e w technologies on stand 9 7 5

Roke
Manor
Research

Owned by Siemens, our client base includes Siemens, other companies
and Government departments. Projects range from feasibility studies to
designs for high volume manufacture. In addition, low volume manufacture
can be undertaken in-house.
We bring a competitive edge to our clients' by applying world-class talent to
create innovative and timely solutions that meet their development needs.
Roke Manor Research is a unique company with a rich heritage and exceptional
people. It is a business which prides itself on pioneering innovation and producing
first-class technical solutions to demanding customer problems across commercial
and defence arenas.
This comes from a foundation of world-class science and engineering expertise
and an enviable breadth of knowledge and skill. In addition to technological
excellence, the company embraces an entrepreneurial culture that balances
engineering excellence, customer focus, business acumen and first-class project
management skills.
Managing Director, Paul Stein appointed in 1996, has overseen the growth of
business from El 9m to over E40m. Paul is a member of the Ministry of Defence
Scientific Advisory Council and sits on the South-East Science and Technology
Advisory Council.

ENDS

For further information please contact
Roger Holtby, Marketing Communications Manager
Roke Manor Research
Tel +44 (0)1794 833455
Email roger hollby©roke co uk
Roke M a n o r Research http //www roke co.uk

David Salter, Account Executive
Defence, Roke Manor Research
Tel +44 (0)1794 833332
Email david salter@roke co uk

