4

IOTA Probes

GLOBAL
S..veral Gateways
STRATEGIC
10Ciblts/s u pacl\Y

Multiple 1OG finks

TACTICAL
1GblU/s capacity

GENERAL DESCRIPTION

centralized interception system. In other cases, IOTA

The IOTA product range has been designed to

probes can be distributed all over ISP premises to

handle all applications based on IP network

obtain a full coverage in decentralized architecture.

analysis. Any Internet input flow will be analysed
and reconstructed into relevant information.

TARGETING CAPABILITIES

Thanks to years of expertise in IP protocols and

Advanced content-based targeting features are

applications, Advanced Middle East Systems has

embedded in IOTA probes. The targeting engine is

developed a state-of-the-art modular intelligent

able to search for technical identifiers and keywords

IP probe.

in the content of all the analyzed communications.

IOTA products cover t he needs for Lawful
Interception (LI), D;ita Retention for ISPs with

BUILT TO FIND RELEVANT INFORMATION

IPDR support (LR, Lawful Interception with IPDR)

With more than 100 protocol decoders, IOTA probes

and Massive Surveillance (MA).

are the perfect tools to understand IP networks. The

Each product has been integrated and is avail-

full decoding engine is able to decode in real time

able for lG and lOG network analysis as basic

all interpersonal communications (facebook, twitter,

component. Each component can be stacked

posted messages, webmails, VoIP conversations, etc.)

to each other in order to reach a global system
with an extended coverage (n t imes lOGbits/ s).

COMPLIANT WITH INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS
IOTA-LI probes are fully compliantwith ETSI standards

CENTRALIZED OR MULTI-SITE SYSTEM

(102.232 for Hl1, Hl2 and Hl3). Data Retention for

Thanks t o its modularity, t he IOTA probes can auto-

communication metadata and contents (IOTA-LR and

matically adapt to several different network archi-

IOTA-MA) is using open standard (XML files) to ease

tecture. If dedicated optical backhauling links are

any requested third-party integration.

available, IOTA probes will be the cornerstone of a

ADVANCED
MIDDLE

EAST

SYSTEMS

IOTA Probe
1Gbits/s Capacity

IOTA Probe
lOGbits/s Capacity

Appliance dedicated to reconstruct in real time interpersonal conversations and associated met a data
analyzed on IP networks.
Operational benefits
• Full protocol classification
• More than 100 protocols and applications classified and reconstructed
• Enriched metadata - extracted from content
• Embedded fail-over by design, ie each server has the exact same software and configuration
• Linear scalability by design
• Gigabit Ethernet interface (10, 100, 1000 baseT)
1U appliance
• Less than 500 W power consumption
• Capacity to handle 1 Gbits/s of traffic

• SFP I SFP+ interface
1OG Ethernet or Optical Fiber connection
7U appliance
3.5 kW power consumption
Capacity to handle up to 1OGbits/s

• Compliant to ETSI internat ional standards
• Intelligent content-based targeting
• Possibility to target any identifiers and keywords
• Capacity to handle up to 50 simultaneous targets • Capacity to handle up to 1000 simultaneous
targets
• Reference: IOTA-1G-LI
• Reference: /OTA-10G·LI
• Includes all the features of LI version
• Generates a live flow of metadata (IPDR)
• Output in proprietary optimized format or in standard XML for external compatibility
• Cost effective solution for lawful interception combined with Data Retention on metadata

• Reference: IOTA-1G-LR

• Reference: /OTA-1 OG-LR

• Full reconstruction of entire network flow
• Includes all the features of the LC version
• Output in proprietary optimized format or standard XML files for external compatibility
• Each outputed file contains one interpersonal communication
• Each file is standalone containing metadata and communication content
• Dedicated for full scope Data Retention application

Reference: IOTA-1G-MA

• Reference: IOTA-1 OG-MA

ADVANCED
MIDDLE

EAST

SYSTEMS
P.O. BOX: 500439
Internet City
Oubai - UAE.
Mobile: +971 56 72 44 190
Email: contact@advancedsystems.ae
All specificat ions presented in this document are subject to modifications without notice and are not contractual.

