Mass Monitoring of IP
and Voice Networks

ClearTrail has the distinctive edge of having implemented and maintained mass interception systems
across hundreds of links of Voice and IP networks. We understand that mass monitoring of Fixed.
Mobile and IP networks is one of the most complicated solutions. Massive costs. converging networks.
exploding bandwidth. enormous data retention and analysis are prime concerns while planning mass
monitoring of communications. ComTrail from our product portfolio addresses all these concerns.
Since its first depl0yment. this mass monitoring system. has won numerous accolades from renowned
federal security agencies. At ClearTrail. we never rest on our laurels. With a clear insight into the
present and a clearer vision for the future, we have re-engineered ComTrail to achieve high
performance 6 low cost. With this redefined product can now mass intercept all bandwidths of IP
links.WiMAX. PSTN. GPRS. 36356. VSAT and IDEN.

Mass interception. Smarter Product. Clearer Trail

ComTrail ata Glance

0 Equipped to handle millions of communications per day intercepted over high speed STM Ethernet
Links

0 Doubles up as Targeted Monitoring System

0 On demand data retention. capacity exceeding several years

0 Instant Analysis across thousands ofTerabytes

0 Correlates Identities acmss multiple networks

0 Speaker Recognition 8. Target Location

 

 

Targeted IP Monitoring

Total monitoring oi all Operators. to plug any intelligence leakage IS critical for government agencies.
Yet, maintaining percent coverage at all times proves to be a challenge. At ClearTrail, our close
association with LEAs across the globe helps. us understand their specific needs and emerging
challenges. In an endeavor to provide a portable solution to answer all these challenges, we are pr0ud
to present- find. our new portable ?On-thc-Go" IP interception system which provides extended
monitor ing coverage to LEAs.

Portable interception . Smarter Product. Clearer Trail

xTrailata Glance

0 Pure passive probe

0 Designed for rapid field operations at Network Gateways

- Stand-alone solution for interception. decoding and analysis of multi Gigabit lP traffic

0 Portable trolley based ior simplified logistics. can easily be deployed and removed from any network
location

0 Huge data retention, rich analysis interface and tampet prooi court evidence
0 Easily integrates with any existing centralized monitoring system for extended coverage

 

 

 

 

Tactical Wi-Fi Monitoring

Conventionally. tactical monitoring of public Internet networks. is confined to bulky Passive Interception
systems. But now. with evolving network dynamics like. secured networks. complex billing
systems, Passive Interception alone is not soitable to monitor Wi-Fi 8. Wired LANs. At ClearTrail. we
keep an on the future while we update our present. Having understood emerging challenges. we
have equipped our globally established system "Ouick?irail' With Active 8. Passive Interception
mechanisms. Future Proofyom tactical interceptionswith OuickTrail

Wi-Fi Interception. Smarter Product. Clearer Trail

OuickTrailata Glance

- Conveniently housed in a laptop computer

- InterceptsWi-Fi and Wired LANs in livedifferentways

0 BreaksWEP. to rip off Secured Wi-Fi Networks

0 Deploys Spywares into target's machine

- Monitors Gmail.Yahoo and all other based communications

0 ReconstructsWebmails. Chats. Calls. News Groups Social Networks

 

 

 

 

 

Off-The-Air Interception

In an increasingly complex communication world, vvith cellular devices having given communication a
paradigm shift. tactical monitoring of mobile communications can prove to be a challenge to the LEAs.
Though centralized GSM monitoring center does provide access to any mobile communication but
sometimes lield operations are a need of the hour. In such situations, LEAs face large
number of GSM Operators. multiple BTS and range of frequencies as challenges to tactical monitormg
of mobile communications.

The all-new mirail" is ClearTrail's answer to all these challenges. The new mTrail is. now geared with
powerful technology that leaves no loot prints while intercepting communication. It's portable. easy to
deploy and makes it easier to intercept and analyze mobile communications.

Mobile Interception . Smarter Product. Clearer Trail

mTrailata Glance

0 Designed for Passive Interception of GSM Communication

0 Intercepts Voice 8. SMS ?OiI-The-Air"

0 Detects. location of the target

0 Can be depIOyed as a fixed unit or mounted in a surveillance van
0 No support required from GSM operator

 

 

 

