i

'i
I

Bivio NCCS
Network Content Control System

--

----

-I

A Cyber-Security Solution to Monitor, Control,
and Block UnwantedTraffic
Bivio's Network Content Control System (NCCS) is the industry's leading
integrated policy-based monitoring, content control and traffic enforcement solution. Until now, network and security administrators needed
to deploy disparate single function devices to solve specific content
enforcement problems such as URL filtering or traffic enforcement.
Bivio NCCS has revolutionizedthe networking industry by delivering
monitoring and control of all forms of IP traffic in one multi-function
networking system.
The Bivio NCCS is a carrier-grade networking platform that utilizes
advanced deep packet inspection (DPI) technology to deliver comprehensive network content control. Purpose-built for high-performance
networks, the NCCS includes a rich set of functionality to identify,
manage and control network traffic based on content, services, applications, protocols and users. Customers can easily deploy the Bivio NCCS
to provide highly programmable traffic enforcement and web content
control functionality to immediately protect and optimize their fixed
and mobile network communications infrastructure.

I

/

I

www.bivio.net

Bivio Network Content Control System
j

Business Enterprise

A

i
!

Ulond
PT*

*
4.

Ran*ted

lPTni6c

Fixed Subscriber Access

j

..................................................

j MobileSubscriber Access [

GGSNI

PDSN

7heBivioNreS does nor requireany netwwk infrmrraure madificationfwWorm&h
nerwwk Depoyedin-line, thetheCSis nompomta the nerwork and m- that is, naP
addre35 isoddresmbk m the IPdatopanh, with noperibnnoneedegra&im to the m.

M

Network-Based Web Content Control
and Traffic Enforcement

FlowlnspectmDPI Engine - The Foundationfor
IP Traffic Monitoring & Control

Managing today's complex network infrastructure presents many
challenges to network and security administrators.First, they must
effectively manage the continued growth in bandwidth-consumingIP
communications (such as general InterneWebsite traffic, Peer-to-Peer
(PZP) file transfers, Skyper Instant Messaging (IM), VolP, and YouTube)
traversing their networks. Furthermore, they must ensure that IP
traffic moving across the network complies with various regulatory or
organization-approved network communication policies. Finally, since
this same traffic often contains policy-prohibitedcontent as well as
malicious data (such as viruses, worms, phishing and other malware),
network administrators must minimizethe impact of cyber security
threats.

At the core of the Bivio NCCS is a powerful and innovative deep packet
inspection (DPI) engine, which leverages Bivio's long and successful
history of combining complex processing at very high networking
speeds with unlimited flexibility. These technologies enable full
protocol and user awareness, along with fine-grained application
and content differentiation.In addition, the DPI engine is used to
provide auto-discovery of user-authentication protocols, eliminating
the need to make external calls to provisioningservers, thereby
greatly simplifying the deployment and management of the system.
The result is a unique and powerful system that can be deployed
inline to perform packet inspection, web content control and traffic
enforcement on a completely standalone basis.

If left unchecked, overall network performance is reduced, content
management and control is diminished and there is increased
vulnerability to cyber security attacks.
Responding to these challenges, the Bivio NCCS is the industry's
leading integrated policy-based monitoring, content control and traffic
enforcement solution. The NCCS is a standalone networking system
that enables customers to provide granular web filtering and traffic
enforcement on a per-protocol, per-flow, and per-user basis, all without
requiring interaction with external devices.

Web Content Control with True HTlP Filtering
The Bivio NCCS provides an advanced lnternet filtering solution that
not only includes traditional URL filtering but also protects the network
communications infrastructurefrom malware and other emerging
threats. NCCS includes mechanisms to control access to improper
content, peer-to-peer (P2P) and chat usage, and other Web-centric
applications.

A significant shortcoming of traditional proxy-based URLfiltering systems
is that only the traffic routed to the proxy servers can be filtered (ports 80,
8080,443, etc.). The Bivio NCCS uses Bivio's advanced Flowlnspect DPI
Engine to filter HTTP traffic regardless of the port used by the service.
The Bivio NCCS web content control technology is based on a stateof-the-art URL categorization and content rating engine, supporting
controlled access to any combination of over 80 website content
categories, including many categories specific to sites optimized
for viewing on wireless/mobile devices. With over 350 million URLs
classified in over 20 languages, the Bivio NCCS provides coverage
for the smallest regional to largest global deployments. Network
administrators may also import custom whitelist and blacklist sites
for specific enforcement concerns for comprehensive content control
with fine-tuned precision.
Advanced features of NCCS include the ability to enforce policy based
on the specific destination IP address, as well as supporting HTTP
keyword matching and URI wildcards.

Transparent DNS Overriding
The Bivio NCCS incorporates a DNS overriding technology that can
be used to block access to common tunneling/proxying techniques
that may be employed by illicit hackers to circumvent network policy.
In fact, the DNS overriding capability further permits transparent and
accurate enforcement of site accessibility without modifying the general DNS server infrastructureconfiguration. This allows customers to
easily conform with local government regulatory requirements while
substituting an altered DNS response to the network user that does
not identify the enforcement policy.

VolP Identification, Control and Blocking
Another characteristic of the Bivio NCCS traffic enforcement
functionality is the ability to classify, identify and control VolP traffic
flows, enabling administrators to apply flexible and granular policies
in full compliance with their network control, cyber security and
regulatory goals.The NCCS combines different key technologies
to enforce VolP traffic policy:
Flow marking based on the 5-tuple of IP addresses, protocol and
port numbers, with flow-state information maintained in memory;
Heuristic mapping to control/block identified traffic based on
Super-Node (SN) knowledge.
Analysis, identification, reporting and control of users VolP services
provides valuable user statistics and information that enable
compliance with internally developed or regulatory mandated policies.
This unique approach makes the Bivio NCCS the ideal solution to
detect, block and provide maximum accuracy in managing Skype
and other P2P VolP traffic.

Mobile-Ready Content Control for Carriers
Today's mobile user introduces new complexity for carriers who are
enforcing web content policy. User IP addresses can change from device
to device or location to location, making it difficult to identify and maintain user policy.The Bivio NCCS is mobile-ready, with built-in support for
mobile broadband networks. Key highlights for NCCS mobile deployments include:
Identificationof actual user/lP source for WAP requests, coming frorri
the WAP Gateway

Traffic Enforcementfor Today and the Future

Filtering rules follow the user on different devices

With the rapid expansion of broadband applications, network
providers are acutely aware that a significant amount of their network's
bandwidth is consumed by traffic such as P2P, VolP, YouTube, and
more. Besides consuming a huge amount of bandwidth,this traffic may
often contain malicious or restricted content, such as security threats
or confidential data. In some cases, administrators may find that some
services are overwhelming the network infrastructurea t particular
times of the day and causing dissatisfaction among network users.

Supports mobile data description languages

The Bivio NCCS, powered by Bivio's advanced Flowlnspect DPI Engine,
provides full visibility and control of all users accessing the network, the
types of traffic they can transmit and services they can access. Network
administrators can use the NCCS to accurately identify and manage
traffic flows based on specific applications, protocols and users.
As networking is very dynamic, one of the major challenges of network
traffic enforcement is the ever-changing applicationand protocol
signatures that are used to identify an application within a specific
traffic flow. Bivio has overcome this challenge with a unique capability
of the Bivio NCCS that addresses frequently changing protocol versions
and enhancements. As new protocols and applications emerge, dynamic libraries on the NCCS are updated so that analysis and identification
continues uninterrupted. Unclassified traffic flows are also managed to
eliminate potential network threats.

Built-in load balancing features ensure scalability even in distributed
mobile networks

Bivio's Network Content Control System - The Best
Solution for Wireline and Mobile Network Awareness
and Control
The Bivio NCCS delivers web content control and traffic enforcement
functionality for customers to protect and optimize their fixed and mobile
network communications infrastructure. Completely self-contained and
capable of operating transparently inline, the NCCS can be deployed at
any location,such as the data center, lnternet gateway, or point of presence (POP).

The BMo NCCS Is o corrierwade wtmd d g n d to creote, manage, cmtrol and
enforceumgepdiciestbr~van'e&o~htemt~m'ces,
prcsentond~tw,
on a or-wer
h i s . Operating transparently i n l k theNCCS can be rcuM to wppopf 10 Gbps

n m r k throughput and h W .

Bivio Network Content Control System

Specifications
Bivio NCCS Models
Network Edition (NCCS-NE) - Universal, network-widepolicy enforcement
Subscriber Edition (NCCS-SE) - Granular, per-user policy enforcement

System Performance
NCC7512: Up to 2 Gbps
NCC7562: Up t o 6 Gbps
Integrated system scaling support up to 10 Gbps

Advanced System Features
Transparent inline mode

Web Content Control
Over 350 million URLs classified in over 20 languages
80 database categories
Database updates in 24 hour intervals
Support for over 20 languages
00,000 H'TTP reqs/sec
Performance: >l
Concurrent sessions: >8,000,000 unidirectional

Traffic Enforcement
Support for standard lnternet Applications/ProtocoIs including HTTP,
FTP, SMTP, POP3, Telnet

Passive sniffing mode when used with TAP or SPAN port

Example P2P protocols include eDonkey/eMule, Gnutella, Kazaa,
Bittorrent (encrypted/unencrypted)

High-performance scaling technology for application & network
processing scaling

Example VolP protocols include H.323, SIP, Skype, GoogleTalk, MSN,
IAX/IAX2, MGCP, H.248/Megaco

High Availability
Optional Aaive/Active and Active/Standby configuration<
lnline (LAN bypass) failopen
Failure-adaptive load balancing
Dual redundant hard drives with RAID-l support
Dual redundant hot swap power supplies

Operating System
Linux 2.6
BiviOS" and APls for system interface

Traffic Management and DPI
Classificationand load balancing on a per-flow basis
802.1q VLAN support
Multi-level MPLS support
Jumbo packets to 9KB
Flowlnspect" DPI Engine

Tunneling and Obfuscation:TOR, Proxify, OpenVPN, PPTP, VTun, SSW
TLS, IPSec
Ethernet Wrapping: Ethernet, MPLS, VLAN, QnQ, L2TP

Network Interface Modules (Up to 2 per chassis)
2-port and +port 10 Gigabit Ethernet (1OGBASE-SR or 10GBASE-LR)
&port Gigabit Ethernet (10/100/1000BASE-T)
6-port Gigabit Ethernet ( l 000BASE-SX or 1000BASE-LX)

Regulatory & Environmental
FCC Part 15 Class A, TUV, CE, VCCI, BSMI, CISPR, ICES, CTick, MIC, GS
RoHS Directive 2002/95/EC (EU)

Electrical
Dual redundant AC power supply (100-240V, 50-60Hz)
Dual redundant DC power supply (-36 to -72 VDC) [optional]

Physical
Weight: 45 Ibs
Dimensions: 3.5" (9cm) H X 17" (43cm) W X 24" (61cm) D [2U rack height,
standard 19" rack-mountable]

Operating Conditions
Power: 600W nominal
Operating Temperature: 0-40C (32-104F)
* Relative Humidity: 10%-90% non-condensing

About Bivio Networks
BIVIONetworks IS a leadlng provlder of network systems for securing, monltorlng and controlling c r l t ~ c anetwork
l
~nfrastructureBIVIO'S global customer base Includes worldwide government agencles and servlce providers Its product
sulte enables ~tscustomers and partners, whlch Include appllcatlon developers and systems Integrators,to develop and
deploy lead~ngsolut~onsto secure monltor and control customer networks BIVIO IS privately held and headquartered In
the San Franc~scoBay area wlth offlce locat~onsworldwide More lnformatlon 1s ava~lableat www b~vlonet
a, 2010 R I V I ~Nrtwo~k\,Inc All r~ghrsrrsrrved Tile Blv~ologo, RIVIOS, Hivlo 1000 Serfes, Blvlo 7100. Blvlo 7500. DPI Appl~cat~on
Pldtiurm a ~ i d
l lowlncpect are trademarks or
req15tciedtradem,lrk, of UIVIONctworks, lnc All otht~rcompany and product !lames may be lrddelllarks of thr~rr ~ 5 p r c t l v eowners. Blvlo N ~ t w o r k s
may (make changes to
~ f i ~ d l l t r rdrld
ic

r)rc>tluct desci~prlonsat any tlme, w ~ l l ~ onallce
ut
P/N GAO91O 62000 00022 Rev 1

{

bivio

@
a:-':

, %h,

-

,

I, ,

S.

'

'

'

-': N e T W O r K S
'

I

,

.,-

,

-

'

Bivio Networks,
4157 W I I I O W~ o , t dSu~te200
l'lt.,tca~iton.CA 94588
Trl. 4 l 925.924.8600
tax. 4 1 925.074 R650
www b~v~o.ncr

\

l

l

c

Real time actionable intelligence

The Bivio Data Retention System (DRS) is a high-performancedata
collection and retention system that allows network operators and government agencies to strengthen cyber security operations across fixed
and mobile network infrastructures.The system correlates network flow
records with online and offline data sources to provide contextualized
information intelligence which cyber analysts can use to detect and
respond to complex security threats.
Bivio DRS provides a key piece of a comprehensive cyber investigative
strategy, enabling investigators to rapidly detect, analyze and react to
complex security threats originating from or traversing the cyber realm.
Through the integration of extremely efficient multi-domain record
correlation technology, Bivio DRS delivers actionable intelligence that
far exceeds the capabilities of existing data recording and packet
capture systems.

I

Scalable Architecture

Bivio DRS uses a distributed scalable architectureto
manage high volume data collection.The system

consists of five different functional elements:
Multi-domain network probe with DPI-based data
extraction engine
Secure, high-performanceData Collection and
Correlation (DCC) engine
Performance-optimized Record Database and
StorageWriter (RDSW) module
Synchronized Session Presence and Tracking (SPT)
engine
Secure Management and Reporting (SMR) interface
Bivio DRS integrates directly with industry-leading
network storage systems to maximize deployment
. .
options.

Bivio DRS Features
Real-time multi-source record correlation
10 Gbps DPI-based network probing enabling
application and user context extraction

Mobile-specific protocol support (WiMax, 3G. 4Gl
LTE) for wireless network integration
High-performance record database
External interfaces for custom data mining and
event triggering

MULE-SOURCE
Unt DB

GLo-

Cyber Analyst

www.bivio.net

Bivio DRS Architecture

Record Database and StorageWriter (RDSW)
The multr-drmenslonal datasets created by the DCC are collected and
securely stored by the Record Database and StorageWriter (RDSW)
module using high-capacity data storage algorrthms that are optimized
for fast search and retrieval.This module is personalized to integrate
drrectly with rndustly-leading network storage systems to offer flexible
deployment options.

Existing cyber investigative data retention solutions focus primarily
on collecting data from a specific source, for example call data records
(CDRs), IP data records (IPDRs) or server activrty logs. Through their inherently linear nature, these existing solut~onslrmit the ability of network
analysts to develop a complete view of activity and potential threats
Data retentron solutions that are designed to record or collect as
much networkdata as possible result in storlng enormous amounts
of unrelated, sequential flow data This leaves network analysts with
t h e task of sorting through rec~rdsto
find relevant or related communication streams, a process which can consume weeks of intense
investigative effort.

Session Presence and Tracking (SPT)
The Bivio DRS Sesslon Presence and Tracking (SPT) engine provides
overall synchronizat~onof the communrcation sessrons and informatron
datasets The SPT engrne allows admrnistrators to implement retention
archivrng, protection and deletion policies for overall system and storage
management.

In contrast to the existing solutions, Bivio DRS is able to correlate and
store structured data. Bivio's rnnovative technology lrnks related pieces
of data t o form a single record that represents the full context of the
collected information.This information enables rich data mining for
powerful cyber rnvestigative operatrons.

Secure Management and Reporting (SMR)
Brvio DRS IS managed through the Secure Management and Reporting
(SMR) interface. This function provides access to Bivio DRS data and
reports based on user and group level privileges, rncluding system-level
authorizatron and auditing capabilrties.

Multi-domain network probe
A core component of Bivio DRS is a 10 Gbps network probe that utilizes
a hlgh-performance layer 7 engrne to extract key flow information including speclfic user, protocol and application information. Bivio network
probes can be drstributed across multiple domains, supporting both
wired and mobrle (WiMax, 3G, 4G/LTE) protocols, to broaden the scope
of investigatrve actrvity.

Dynamic Triggering
In addition to providing historical analysis of retained usage data, Bivio
DRS includes innovative dynamic triggering technology that can initiate real-time actions throughout the collection, storage and retrieval
process. This powerful capability is easily customized using an open
scrrpting mechanrsm, and can immediately alert analysts or enable
instant threat mltigatron action based upon the real-time front-end
data collectron process.

Data Collection and Correlation (DCC)
The Data Collection and Correlation (DCC) engine performs several critical functions In the Blvro DRS lncludlng aggregating flow records from
multrple data sources and creating context-based data relationships
of the user activity streams.The formation of these datasets provrdes
information-rich intelligence that optimrzes the retention and analysis
functrons of the system

F

-=.>-

>

- - - A

The Bivio Data Retention System empowers cyber analysts to leverage
contextualized information faster than ever before through real time
data collection and correlation.This ability enables government authorities such as law enforcement (LEA) and public safety agencies to rapidly
detect, analyze and react to cyber security threats.

-.-

.

About Bivio Networks

Bivio DRS Delivers Actionable Intelligence

.

-

. .

.

.

-- -"ll-f-:.:g

*

S

z

P

Brvio Networks is a leading provrder of network systems for securing, monltorrng and controlling crrt~calnetwork
infrastructure.Bivro's global customer base includes worldwide government agencies and service provrders. Its product
suite enables rts customers and partners, whrch Include applrcation developers and systems Integrators, to develop and
deploy leadrng solutions to secure monrtor and control customer networks. Blvro IS pr~vatelyheld and headquartered in the
San Francisco Bay area with office locations worldwide. More rnformat~onis available at www.blvro.net. - .
s er-& l * L

L

r

0 2010 Bivlo Network, Inc All nghts reserved The Wvlo logo, EIVIOS,81v1o
7WO. BIVIO7100. and Blvto 7500 are trademarksor

All other company and product names may be trademark of the~rrespectweowners BIVIONetworksmay make changes to speclficat~onsand product descr~pt~ons
at any
nme, without nouce PM GA101062MXKXX)26Rev 1

Bivio Networks, Inc.
4457 Wilow Road, Sulte 200
Pleasanton,CA 94588
Tel +l 925.924 8600
Fax +l 925.9248650
www blno.net

BlVlO APPLICATION LIBRARY

6bivio
NeTWOrKS

Network Security Solution
Today's Network IT and Security Managers want to deploy world-class network
security solutions that leverage SNORT" IDS and other open source network
security applications.
This, however, is not always an easy task. Between having to implement multiple applications and dealing with the constraints of existing server platforms,
implementing a comprehensive network security open source solution on high
performance, 10 Gbps platforms have been a challenge for Network IT and
Security Managers.
Biv~oNetworks has significantly reduced the time, effort and resources required
t o identify and leverage a complete open source network security solution.
Through a rigorous certification program, Bivio has bundled a compelling package
of open-source network security applications - Snort: YAF, Barnyard, SILK, and
Arpwatch -to provide a superior network security solution without compromising performance or flexibility. By executing this package of applications, Network
lTand Security Managers can use Snort" to identify intrusions and Barnyard to
unify the Snort" alerts. In parallel, they can deploy YAF in conjunction with SILK
to provide a full-featured flow record generator. Finally, Arpwatch provides a
powerful low level method of detecting Ethernethp addressing anomalies.

Features and Benefits
A Complete Solution
A pre-packaged bundle of open source network
security applications delivering IDS, alert processing, packet flow formatting, packet flow analysis,
and monitoring: SNORT: YAF, Barnyard, SILK,
Arpwatch
Bivio 7000 Series Certified
Tested and certified on the Bivio Networks
10 Gbps DPI Application Platform.
Easy Access
Applications are downloadable from Bivio's Application Library found at www.bivio.net or can be
Bivio factory installed onto the Bivio 7000 at time
of shipment. Contact sales@bivio.net.
Easy Installation & Start-Up
Applications ship in a complete package that
includes all the software files, documents and
configuration files native to the open source
software. In addition, Bivio includes initialization
scripts to simpliQ and ease implementation.

Bivio Networks is shattering the belief that 10 Gbps performance and open-source
packet processing applications are incompatible. By certifying this security application suite on our Bivio 7000 Series DPI Application Platform, Bivio Networks
bridges open source applications and 10 Gbps networking with no compromise
in performance.
LIBRARY
Bivio's open source solutions can be easily downloaded from Bivio's Application
Library found at www.bivio.net - or can be factory installed onto our Bivio 7000
a t time of shipment.

www. bivio.net

Open Source Network Security Solution
The Network Security Solution consists of five complementary open-source
applications: Snort:YAF, Barnyard, SILK, and Arpwatch. These applications may
be used individually, or they may be used in conjunction with each other to create
a compelling suite of security services.

Benefits
True Wire-Speed, 10 Gbps Performance
A state-of-the-art high-performance aichitecture
ensures that all deep packet handling services on
all interfaces are processed and forwarded at line
rate for all packet sizes.
Standard Linux Environment
The network appliance platform is shipped
with a pre-ported, standard Linux distribution
with full Linux API compatibility to ensure rapid
development.

Flow Analysis Sensor
IPFlX data generator

The installation package that Bivio ships includes all of the software files, documents and configuration files native to the open source software. In addition, Bivio
includes initialization scripts t o simplify and ease implementation. The scripts allow
the open source application t o seamlessly integrate into the operating environment
on the Bivio platform (named BiviOS). BiviOS provides additional control over the
application, enabling users to optimize the runtime configurations on the system.
Additionally, BiviOS provides mechanisms to ensure that the applications are always
running even when a failure occurs.

High Availability
Bivio 7000 Series Platforms support redundant
system configurationsto deliver non-stop
mission-critical services.
Network Connectivity with Hardware Bypass
A selection of industry-standard network
interfaces provide programmable fail-open
support for copper or fiber cabling.
Scalable Processing & Performance
Multiple platforms may be stacked to deliver
unprecedented application performance
and throughput.

The Hardware
The Bivio 7000 Series of DPI Application Platforms is a family of compact, extremely
high-performance,and fully programmable network appliances that combine a
unique packet processing hardware architecture with a software platform that
includes a standard Linux-based execution environment and a comprehensive set
of networking features. Bivio's DPI Application Platforms deliver uncompromising
performance and unmatched flexibility.

About Bivio Networks
Bivio Networks is a leading prov~derot network systems tor securing, monitoring and controlling critical network
infrastructure. Bivio's global customer base includes worldwide government agencies and service providers. Its product
suite enables its customers and partners, which include application developers and systems integrators,to develop and
deploy leading solutions to secure, monitor and control customer networks. Bivio is privately held and headquartered in
the San Francisco Bay area with office locations worldwide. More information is available at www.bivio.net.
0 201 1 Bivio Networks, Inc. All rights rese~ed.
The Bivio logo, BiviOS. Bivio 7000, Bivio 7100, and Bivio 7500 are trademarks or registeredtrademark of Bivio Networks. Inc.

Snort is a registeredtrademark of Sourceflre,Inc. All other company and product names may be trademarksof their respective owners. Bivio Network, may make changes to
specifications and product descriptionsat any time, without notice. PIN: GAOl11-62000-00015 Rev 1

6bivio
NeTWOrKS
Bivio Networks, Inc.
4457 Wlllow Road. Sulte 200
Pleasanton, CA 94588
Tel: + l 925.924.8600
Fax: +l 925.924.8650

www.bivio.net

BlVlO APPLICATION LIBRARY

@ bivio
NeTWOrKS

~cp~Ol~ngprlormon
Ullmulchrdlkxlblllly
ce

m

Today's Network IT and Security Managers want to implement world-class
third-party and open source applications for network security, network flow
analysis, and other mission critical monitoring and control solution. Applications
such as SNORr YAF, SiLK, Barnyard and Bro are excellent open source applications
available for global network deployment. In addition to typically free distribution,
the leading open source applications are readily supported by a community of
experienced users.
Bivio Networks has significantly reduced the time, effort and resources required to
identify and leverage a complete open source solution.Through a rigorous certification program, Bivio has certified a number of leading open source applications
as well as pre-packaged a set of applications specifically to help lTand Security
Managers deploy network security and network flow analysis solutions without
compromising performance or flexibility.
Open source applications and bundled solutions can be easily downloaded from
Bivio's Application Library found at www.bivio.net - or can be factory installed
onto the Bivio 7000 at time of shipment.
The RPM packages that Bivio ships include all of the software files, documents and
configuration files native to the open source software. In addition, Bivio includes
application profiles and initialization scripts to simplify and ease implementation.
Bivio Networks is shattering the belief that 10 Gbps performance and open-source
packet processing applications are incompatible.By certifying this application suite
on our Bivio 7000 Series DPI Application Platform, Bivio Networks bridges open
source applications and 10 Gbps networking with no compromise in performance.

Features and Benefits
The Leading Open Source Applications
Open source network security and network
flow analysis applications delivering IDS, alert
processing, packet flow formatting, packet flow
analysis, and monitoring: SNORTYAF, Barnyard,
SiLK, Arpwatch, Bro, nProbe, nTop, SANCP,
Squid, TCPdump, Argus
Bivio 7000 Series Certified
Tested and certified on the Bivio Networks
10 Gbps DPI Application Platform.
Easy Access, Implementation & Start-Up
Applications are downloadable from Bivio's
Application Library found at www.bivio.net or can
be Bivio factory installed onto the Bivio 7000 at
time of shipment. Contact sales@bivio.net

Open Source Applications

Benefits

-

Active lnline Prevention

Connection Profiler

auditing, historical analysis, and network activity

Alen Processor for Snort"
database alerts.

YAF

Flow Analysis Sensor

Processes packet flows into IPFlX format for later
analysis

Arpwatch

ARP monitoringtool

Alerting on modificationsto ARP tables

Argus

System& NetworkMonitoring

System and network monitoringapplication with
flexible alening and easy-to-useweb interface

The Hardware
The Bivio 7000 Series o f DPI Application Platforms is a family of compact, extremely
high-performance, and fully programmable network appliances that combine a

True Wire-Speed, 10 Gbps Performance
A state-of-the-an high-performance architecture
ensures that all deep packet handling services on
all interfaces are processed and forwarded at line
rate for all packet sizes.
Standard Linux Environment
The network appliance platform is shipped
with a pre-ported, standard Linux distribution
with full Linux API compatibility to ensure rapid
development.
High Availability
Bivio 7000 Series Platforms support redundant
system configurationsto deliver non-stop
mission-critical services.
Network Connectivity with Hardware Bypass
A selection of industry-standard network
interfaces provide programmable fail-open
support for copper or fiber cabling.
Scalable Processing 81Performance
Multiple platforms may be stacked to deliver
unprecedented application performance and
throughput.

unique packet processing hardware architecture with a software platform that
includes a standard Linux-based execution environment and a comprehensive set
o f networking features. Bivio's DPI Application Platforms deliver uncompromising
performance and unmatched flexibility.

About Bivio Networks
Bivio Networks is dedicated to providing leading networking systems for deep packet inspection (DPI) networking
applications and services. The company's products support a wide range of customer solutions, including network security,
monitoring and surveillance, traffic management,content-based processing, value-added Web 2.0 applications and services,
and many other DPI-based networkingapplications. Bivio's global customer base includes worldwide government agencies,
service providers, leading DPI-based application developers, and systems integrators. Bivio is privately-held and is headquartered in the San Francisco Bay Area with office locations worldwide. More information is available at www.bivio.net.

&bivio
NeTworKs
Bivio Networks, 11%
4457 W~llowRoad,

~ W
Tekl

0 2010 Bivio Networks, Inc All rights reserved.The Bivio logo. BiviOS, Bivio 7000, Bivio 71W, and Bivio 7500 are trademarks or registered trademarks of Bivio Networks. Inc.

Fa+l

Snort is a registered trademark of Sourcefire, Inc. All other companyand product names may be trademarks of their respective owners. Bivio Networks may make changes to
specficat~ons
and product dexnpt~onsat any nme, w~thoutnonce. P/N.GA080962000MM14 RevO

~

R

~

B

W

$&@&m
~

o

m

1

I

bivio

Bivio 7000 SeriesDPI Application Platform

Featuresand Benefits
True Wire-Speed, 10 Gbps Performance

State-of-the-art high-performance architecture
ensures all deep packet handling services on all
interfaces are processed and forwarded at line
rate for all packet sizes.
Standard Linux Environment

Network appl~anceIS sh~ppedw~tha pre-ported,
standard Linux distribution with full Linux API
compatibility to ensure rap~ddevelopment.
High Availability
Biv~o7000 Series platforms support redundant

system configurations to deliver non-stop
mission-criticalservices.
Network Connectivity with Hardware Bypass
A selection of industry-standard network

interfaces provide programmable fail-open
support for copper or fiber cabling.
Scalable Processing & Performance

Multiple platforms may be stacked to deliver
unprecedentedapplication performanceand
throughput.

NeTWOrKS

10 Gigabit Deep Packet Processing
Bivio's DPI Application Platforms, the Bivio 7000 Series, are a family of compact,
extremely high-performance, and fully programmable network appliances that
combine a unique packet processing hardware architecture with a software
platform that includes a standard Linux-based execution environment and a
comprehensive set of networking features. Designed specifically to provide wire
speed deep packet processing,the Bivio 7000 Series architecture fuses Network
Processing components with Application ProcessingCPUs to deliver uncompromising performance and unmatched flexibility.The platform family includes
two main product groups that provide performance optimized features to deliver
true line rate packet processing from 4 Gbps to more than 10 Gbps throughput
using seamless scaling technology.
The Bivio 7000Series platforms are fully programmable systems that allow any
Linux-based networking application to run on the appliance with little or no
porting effort. By basing the platforms on a standard, pre-ported Linux distribution
with full API compatibility, software developers can quickly and easily run applications within hours of unpacking the device. A rich set of software infrastructure
components further allow developers to quickly realize advanced capabilities of the
platform including robust traffic management, load distribution across the multiple
Application Processor CPUs, high availability and system management integration.
Deploying solutions on Bivio 7000 Series platforms allow customers t o achieve
disruptive improvements in deep packet inspection and processing performance
systems cost, reliability, and scalability for their open source, commercial and
custom developed solutions. Bivio platforms are ideal for a wide range of
applications such as cybersecurity, content management, policy enforcement,
and network intelligence.

System Architecture
The Bivlo 7000 Serles platform family includes two main product groups,
the Bivio 7100 and Bivio 7500. All platforms employ a common system
archltecture that IS optimized by model for a range of performance tiers.
The major hardware features include a multi-threaded network processor,
multlple dual-core application processors, high-capacity Network Interface Modules (NIMs), and a high-performance commun~cationfabric
that accommodates full wire-speed data rates between processors
The separation of applicat~on-levelprocessrng from network layer
processing is fundamental to the Bivlo system archltecture. All platform
models Include a high-performance Network Processor Card (NPC)
featuring a multi-core, XLR" Processor that provides hardware packet
manipulation at llne rate for all packet sizes A standard Linux execution
environment allows applications to easily leverage performanceenhancing functions of the Network Processor such as fast path
acceleration, or blocking of packets at the network layer. In addition,
the NPC implements system management functronallty through a
dedicated processor that communicates to all processors on a private
control network.
Application Processors (APs) In the platform archltecture are fully
parallellzed CPU subsystems that host Linux networking applicatlon(s)
Each AP subsystem employs dual-core processor technology deslgned
so that each processor core includes independent memory and offload
acceleration slots. Two dual-core APs are Included on the NPC board,
and Bivio 7500 models allow performance scaling by addlng Application
Processor Cards (APCs) to provide an additional four APs per APC to
the platform through the high-performance fabric interconnect.
Bivio 7000 Series platforms support dual redundant hot-swap power
supplles and dual hard drlves that can be configured In RAID-1 redundancy.
The system chassis is a carrier-grade 2U rack mount appliance wlth
optimized airflow and thermal management

Bivio 7000 Network
Processor Card

BIVIO7000 Series NlMs are designed with software-programmable bypass
circuits so that i n the event of a power failure or other system fault, the
bypass ports will fall "open", allowing network traffic to pass uninterrupted
through the NIM The failopen occurs between paired ports on the same
NIM This feature allows the network appliance to be placed directly in-line
in the networktopology without adding additional switches or routers
when used in a transparent mode deployment.

Scalable Processing & Performance
The BIVIO7500archltecture Includes the capability to stack multiple
platforms using unique scaling technology that dellvers unprecedented
application performance and throughput for multiple 10 Gbps linksall managed as a single logical system. Chassis may be stacked wlth
additional APCs to provlde additional application performance, NPCs
for greater system throughput on multi 1OG links, or a combination of
both NPCs and APCs. NPC scallng also provides greater I/O capacity t o
the system if required.

High Availability (HA)
The B~vio7000 Ser~esNetwork Appliance Platforms provide numerous
HA system features that eliminate any slngle points of failure to deliver
non-stop misslon-critical services. Standard system HA features include
dual redundant hot-swap power supplles, dual redundant hard drlves
with RAID-l, internal redundancy of Appllcation Processors wlth fallureadapt~veload balancing, and software- and hardware-basedfallopen
(bypass) network rnterfaces. Additional HA capabilities are also supported
including external system redundancy configuratlons,and an independent management processor wlth an Isolated control network and
management port. The Bivio architecture ensures sufflclent resources
for each application even at full llne rate processing.

BiviOSTM
Software
At the foundation of the BIVIOplatform 1s a standard Llnux execution
environment that allows any Linux-based networking application to run
on the appliance with little porting effort.The BIVIO software environment
IS called BlviOS" and includes a comprehensive set of networking and
management features in additlon to the Linux kernel and common APls.
By baslng the Bivio network appliance on a standard, pre-ported Lrnux
distr~butionwith full API compatibility, software developers can quickly
and easily run appllcatlons wlthin hours of unpacking the device. BiviOS"
is transparent to the programmer but immediately allows applications to
take full advantage of the performance, flexibility, and scalability Inherent
in the Blvio 7000 Series platforms.

Network Connectivity with ProgrammableBypass
Network Interface Modules (NIMs) simplify the connection of the Bivio
7000 Serles Network Appliance Platforms to a variety of industry standard
network interfaces The platform includes two NIM slots that are populated with the appropriate type and number of interfaces required for
each installation without impacting the appliance system archltecture.
Many network topologies require fallsafe protection from devlces that
are installed as "in-line" elements on the network. This requirement
guarantees that an equipment failure will not cause a network outage
or loss of connectivity.This requirement may be met by deploying
systems in redundant failover configuratlons or by providing hardware
bypass circuits on the network interface ports.

BiviOS" also supports a rlch set of software infrastructure components
that allow developers to quickly realize advanced capabilities of the
Bivio network appliance.These components provide a varlety of critical
servlces including robust traffic management and load distribution across
the multiple Application Processor CPUs. Bivio Appllcation Programming
Interfaces (APls) enable further customization and optimizatron of the
Bivio architectureto the specific application requirements.

Traffic Modes
All Bivio 7000 Serles platforms can be configured to support either of
two traffic modes: transparent mode or mixed mode. Transparent mode
supports traditronal inline or "sniff" behavior, as all network interfaces are
configured with no IP address and the platform appears invisible, or like
a wire, to the networkdevices on either side. Mixed mode allows configurations to be used where some interfaces are In transparent mode, and
some (or even all) interfaces are in gateway or "routed" mode. In gatewav

/

BivK)Sm Sdtware Environment
.
.

-

Customer h~pliutions

-

L
l

'

---

-

Bivio Networks Apl

mode packets must be routed through the platform as if ~twas a router,
and each interface is on a different subnet, has a unique IP address, and
is independentlyaddressable from outside the appliance.

Policy-Based Load Distribution
Traffic distribution in the Bivio network appliance is based on innovative
load balancing algorithms that are managed by Configurable lnspection
Groups (CIG).CIG is the foundation for expanding the platform into multiple virtual systems and consolidating complimentary applications on
a single network appliance. The basic function of CIG is to bind specific
interfaces to classification policies and distribute incom~ngtraffic to the
assigned computational resources according to the classif~cation.
In the
example diagram, IP traffic 1s classified into two groups whrch are then
load balanced among a dedicated Inspection Group, or group of Application Processors. Different applications or configurations can be run
on different Inspection Groups, allowing complete flexibility in applying
the platform's resourcesto different tasks.
,,--Trallic Sets

\

InspectionGroup l

-,

Parallel-Processing with Packet Copy: Sometimes,different applications need to inspect the same packet, but would normally experience
resource contention when running on the same processor or shared
memory.The Bivio platform avoids these resource contentions by
copying packets in hardware to parallel applications without sacrificing
throughput or latency. The scalable processing architecture ensures
sufficient resources for each application even at full line rate processing.
Network-LayerCPU-Offload: In this mode the Application decides
which flows to process at the Application Layer and which ones to offload to the programmable Network Layer. This functionality significantly
increases the effective capacity of the devlce. For latency sensitive traffic
like VolP and multimedia, applications can tap into control flows whlle
data flows get forwarded on an accelerated inline path through the network layer, thereby keeping data path latencies at an absolute minimum.

Bivio APls
BIVIO APls enable system developers to utilize several advanced capabilities
of the Bivio architecture as well as offer unique value-added capabilities for
custom product differentiation. Bivio APls include advanced capabilities for
traffic modes, system scaling, management and high availability functions
on the Bivio network appliance.

Management
The Bivio platform supports a command line interface (CLI) as well as
a web-based graphical user interface (GUI).The Biv~oCL1 provides autocompletion, tab completion, command history and context-sensitivehelp.

Advanced Modes
The default operation of the Bivio network appliance is to load balance
all traffic from the network interfaces across all Application Processors.
Although this configuration is sufficient for many Inline and transparent
network applications, the Bivio platform can be easily configured to
support advanced network operations in multiple traffic modes.

lnline Tap Mode: In this mode, the platform operates as a transparent
inline devlce while packets are belng copled from the "wire" to the
application. Therefore, packets can be sniffed at wire speed and
without the need for mirror-portson a switch.

Managing the Blvio platform through a web GUI is accomplished by
using the Bivio Systems Management Center (SMC). Bivio SMC is a
comprehensive centralized management system that simplifies the
deployment and maintenance of Bivio platforms and cyber security
solutions. Fully-integratedas a hardened, rack mount appliance, the Bivio
SMC provides complete Fault, Configuration,Accounting, Performance
and Security (FCAPS) functionality for network administrators to easily
manage and maintain any number of Bivio systems using a highly scalable
client/server architecture.

Bivio 7000 Series DPI Application Platforms

Specifications

I

I

XLR732 (81

I

I # A~olication~racessorcotes

I

4

I

I Scalable Process~nqCapability

I

No

I

Yes

1 StorageTechnology

I

SATA

I

SAS or SATA

I1

twork Processor Tvoe (# cores)

Operating System and Networking Features
Linux 2.6, hardened
Bivio API system interfaces
802.1q VLAN support
Multi-level MPLS support
Jumbo packets to 9KB
IPv6 support

XLR732 8)

I

4

12

I

Network Interface Modules
Up to 2 NlMs per chassis
All NlMs Include programmable hardware bypass
- 2-port and 4-port 10 Gigablt Ethernet (1OGBASE-SR or 1OGBASE-LR)
- &port Gigabit Ethernet (10/100/1000BASE-T)
- 6-port Gigabit Ethernet (1000BASE-SX or 1000BASE-LX)
- &port OC-3c/STM-l c, OC-l2dSTM-4c Packet-over-SONET/SDH
- 2-port OC-48c/STM-16c Packet-over-SONET/SDH
- l-port OC-192dSTM-64c Packet-over-SONET/SDH

Network Management Features
In-band or Out-of-band CL1 with telnet SSH or console support
XML and EJB extensibility
SNMPvZc, SNMPv3
Alarm detection and reporting
Real time statistics reporting and logging
Software versioning and upgrade infrastructure
Complete MIB support
GUI-based centralized monitoring & management via Systems
Management Center (Bivio SMC)

Bivio Accelerator Modules (Optional)
Cavium CN1615: SSL, IPsec, RSA, Diffie-Hellman, DES/3DES, AES, AESGCM, Kasumi, ARC4 MD5, SHA-1, SHA-2, HMAC-MD5, HMAC-SHA-1
Regulatory & Environmental Compliance
FCC Part 15 Class A, TUV, CE, VCCI, BSMI, CISPR, ICES, CTick, MIC, GS
RoHS Directive 2002/95/EC (EU)
China RoHS

High Availability Features
1:N system redundancy
Active/Active and Active/Standby with non-stop system operation
Inline (LAN bypass) failopen
Failure-adaptive load balancing
Dual redundant hard drives wlth RAID-1 support
Dual redundant hot swap power supplies

Environmental (Operating)
Temperature: 0 to 40C (32 to 104F)
Relative Humidity: 10 to 90% non-condensing
Dimensions
3 5" (9cm) H X 17" (43cm) W X 24" (61cm) D (2U height)
Standard 19" rack-mountable
45 Ibs

bivio

About Biyio Networks
Bivio Networks is a leading provide
toring and controlling critlcal network
infrastructure. B~vio'sglobal customer base includes worldwide government agencies and service providers. Its produ
suite enables its customers and partners, which include application developers and systems integrators,to develop and
deploy leadlng solutions to secure, monitor and control customer networks Blvio IS privately held and headquartered in
the San Franc~scoBay area wlth office locat~onsworldwide. More lnformatron is ava~lableat www.bivio net.

NeTWOrKS
Bivio Networks, Inc.

4457 WIIIOW Road. Su~te200
Pleasanton CA 94588
Tel + l 925 924 8600
Fax + l 925 924 8650

0 201 1 BIVIO Networks,Inc All r~ghts
reserved The BIVIO logo, BwlOS. BIVIO 7000 Ser~es,BIVIO 7100, BIVIO 7500, DPI Appl~cat~on
Platform and Flowlnspectare trademarks or
reg~stered
trademarks of BIVIO Networks, Inc All other company and product names may be trademarks of the~rrespective owners BIVIO Networks may make changes to

1

spec~ficat~ons
and product descr~pt~ons
at any tlme, w~thoutnotlce P/N GAOl11-62000.00012Rev 9

,711

1 1
)I-,:,b:~!+,,~~~~l,,~

I

I"

,l AIL,^^!!

it,,

,

11 ,

I,

11

,

)lk ,l

S

A

,

", l,, -

11,

11

\ l,,,

l

www blv~onet

. l,,

,~,:I,,,L!ll~~lt

:ii:

'

~ ~,;I~L
i [,,!I~
!G ~8,1!

, l

J

11 , ,

,!:,,I

*

I
l,

;,t

, ., 1 ,,

*X "3-

ss

%

,L! I ~ ,n,i~,u,-a
L

11

Istt4

,,,,,L

I

