TECHNOLOGIES
Recently Developed
Voice recognition
based on automatic voice search in a pre-recorded
database of voice samples
This technology provides automatic voice searching in a
previously recorded voice database. Both the voice of
the target speaker and the voice samples in the database
are recorded in the telephone channel. All types of
telephone sets, lines and Automatic Telephone
Exchanges currently used are accepted. The speech is
of arbitrary content, and spontaneously produced. The
minimum duration of the sample recording is 100
seconds; the speech of the target speaker should be at
least 15 seconds in duration. The system has a reliability
of over 90%.
Voice command recognition technology for
speaker- and language-independent command
recognition
This technology is intended for speaker-independent
recognition of a fixed set (several dozens) of isolated
voice commands. To adapt the system to any lexicon in
any language it is enough to collect a database as
pronounced by 30-50 speakers of the desired language.
The reliability of the system is over 97% provided the
commands are more than 1 second in duration. The
recognition process is based on STC proprietary
patented algorithm. The technology makes no use of the
floating point and thus can be used with even the
cheapest microprocessors.
Echo cancellation technology improving speech
quality and facilitating user speech comprehension
when using a mobile telephone
in a car “hands-free” environment
When used in an automobile environment this
technology allows the loudness level of the far-end
speaker to be reduced by 15dB and more. As a result of
combining echo suppression proper with noise
cancellation, the magnitude of echo suppression grows
as the noise level increases. The technology makes no
use of the floating point and thus can be used with even
the cheapest microprocessors.
Automatic speaker segmentation of multi-speaker
telephone conversations
This technology allows a recording of two-speaker
telephone conversations to be automatically divided into
two separate segments. Two files are created, each
containing the speech of one of the speakers. Fragments
of simultaneous speech are discarded or, if one of the
speakers sounds louder, it can be written to a louder
speaker's file. The reliability of speaker segmentation
depends on channel- and speaker-related spectral
differences. It averages at 95% reliability..

Noise cancellation technology for speech
recordings allowing removal or reduction of
negative effects of most known interference types
on speech intelligibility
This technology allows simultaneous application of
several noise cancellation methods highly effective
against complex noises - undoubtedly the most frequent
kind of real life noises. It is possible to select and apply
any set of the 11 available methods, as well as to use any
desired method repeatedly for both simple and complex
processing. Each of the methods allows flexible
adaptation to specific noises through modifying the
parameter set. To process typical noises one can apply
any of over 10 available standard procedures. Using
such a procedure demands no more than a standard
computer’s capacity.
Automated segmentation of speech
recordings (into phrases, words, phones)
The technology provides speech/non-speech and
speech/pause detection and semi-automatic
segmentation of speech files into isolated speech
chunks (words and/or phrases). A HMM-based
segmentation module has been developed for
preliminary semi-automatic speech phones segments.
This module can manually correct both boundary
markers and transcription labels. This was initially
developed to facilitate segmenting phonetic and labeling
of Russian digits, but it can be adapted to be used for
language-independent broad phonetic segmentation
and labeling of noise-free speech data.
Speaker-independent speech recognition from a
distance of 50-70 cm in highly noisy automobile
environments
This technology is intended for speaker-independent
recognition of a fixed set (several dozens) of isolated
voice commands inside a car moving at speeds of up to
200 km/h. The technology includes noise cancellation
and speech recognition. The reliability of the recognition
is over 95% provided the commands are more than 1
second in duration. The microphone is mounted above
the windscreen about 50-70 cm from the driver. The
technology does not use the floating point and thus can
be used even with the cheapest microprocessors.

Contact us to know more about our
current achievements and extensive
development resources

