1
i TRUCECE&
BUNTEREASII 1IS

police forces around the world. We represent some of the most respected and well- established companies in the global defense
E

stablished
in industry.
1990, our company specializes in the sales and distribution of defense systems and equipment to militaries and
and security

Our staff members have extensive military backgrounds and have held many commands.

Our Company is a ONE STOP SHOP focused on meeting our clients needs by providing a full-package deal:

•Ground F o r c e s : Supplying full-package to meet the needs of ground forces, from personal gear for the soldier to equipment and
platforms for the platoon and unit.
"Riot C o n t r o l : Supplying full range of products from gear for the riot-control officer to special items for entire units.
• Counter&Anti-Terror I SWAT: Supplying the most advanced Counter andAnti-Terror gear and training to SWATteams worldwide.
• NBC: Supplying rings of exposure and identification devices for NBC as well as cleaning and treatment protection devices for dealing
with dangerous materials.
• Homeland S e c u r i t y : Providing training, consulting and gear to protect maritime ports, airports. train stations, military bases,
prisons and compounds.

fak
• K9 - Dogs: Supplying attack, explosive and charge detection, drug detection, search and rescue dogs as well as training and gear.
• EOD&IED: Supplying full package gear from the ballistic protection to the professional equipment. We also supply a diversified variety of
services related to numerous ammunition related activities such asAmmunition Demilitarization. Demining &Area Clearance.
•P e r i m e t e r D e f e n s e : Providing full turn-key projects as well as other Sophisticated Solutions such as an Electronic Perimeter
Intrusion Detection Systems and other types of defense and safety measures.
' B a l l i s t i c s : Manufacturing and supplying bulletproof plates. body armor, ballistic helmets, armored vehicles, special armoring and
armored gear complying with the highest international standards.
• Rappelling: Providing Professional Equipment that Was specially developed for the use of SWAT teams. Counter Terror and Special
Forces around the world in Rescue missions and other Military applications.
' Te x t i l e s : Providing a wide range of high quality textile Products, from personal gear, through special tactical items to unit gear.
' D e f e n s e A c a d e m y : Providing consulting services and specialized security training of ALL TYPES, insuring that the quality of your
knowhow will be as great as your equipment.

• F
S 1
c

_111111 .

I .

E

N
NE

•- I - • ••
Availability of Advanced Technologies in today's world poses a major threat for governments.earmed forces and law enforcement agencies
when used by hostile elements, spies or criminal organizations. This concern requires the authorities to adapt and find answers in the
form of newAdvanced Technologies and Counter Measures as the first line of defense against more and more sophisticated and hi-tech
hostile elements. An effective intelligence gathering provides reliable information which, if used correctly, can give the required time and
advantage to react and defuse potentially dangerous situations in the best way possible.
Based on years of extensive experience with intelligence needs. TAR can offer the most innovative, functional, comfortable and safe
products in a wide variety of fields, from Cellular Interception Systems and GSM solutions to Jammers. Observation Systems, Tracking
Equipment and IJAV's.
TAR takes great pride in its Cellular Interception Systems capabilities, which include full passive and semi passive GSM solutions, in
addition to other areas of expertise such as:
CDMApassive solutions
Personal satellite communication interception, including Thuraya, Iridium. VSAT and other commercial channels
WI-F1 interception solutions
Internet traffic interception solutions
Frontends integration with larger scale systems
Each of the systems we offer is field proven and can be provided either as a tactical solution for a single user or a strategic solution
(installation in fixed facilities with many operators).
The wide range of technologies and special devices we offer puts TAR at the top as a ONE STOP SHOP
and world leader in the Intelligence & Countermeasures field.

c

3 E Q U I P M E N T & TRAINING f

GSM INTERCEPTION SYSTEM
IB0401
Works with any type of encryption, includingA511 and A5/2 Off-the —air, fully passive, interception, decoding. processing and
monitoring of GSM signals.
Coverage of all frequency bands for GSM (850. 900, 1800, 1900MHz).
Automatic Language/Dialect and Speaker Recognition.
The system is the most advanced GSM interception and monitoring system that currently exists worldwide.
The system includes both hardware device and accompanying software.
No cooperation with the network operator is needed. Several portable interceptors can be managed
and controlled by a central GSM processing and A5/1 deciphering system.

OA

SEMI PASSIVE GSM INTERCEPTION SYSTEM
IB0402
Fast and reliable interception, interrogation and jamming of GSM traffic.
Interception for Incoming and Outgoing encrypted GSM communication includingA511 in real-time and without cooperation
with network operators:
• Interception for multiple concurrent duplex calls
•Simultaneous interception
of multiple operators
• Selective jamming and phone
manipulation capabilities.
• Extracting of phone identities
including phone numbers
• Invisible and undetectable operation
• User-friendly operation
• Operational Applications
• Off-Air Interception
• IMSI/IMEI catching
•Selective jamming of communication
•Presence verification
•Data Analysis
• Direction Finding Support

'--

INTELLIGENCE & COUNTER MEASURES

4

•
•

•

I n
•

•

THURAYA INTERCEPTION SYSTEM
IB0501
Thuraya is the first generally available mobile satellite communication system covering the
territory of 110 countries of Europe, Central Asia , Middle East. North and Central Africa,
Main services of the Thuraya satellite communication system are:
• Voice communication.
• Dial-up data transmission;
•GmPRS batch communication;
• Facsimile communication:
•Transmission of short messages;
• Defining of geographical position of subscribers.
The system is intended to intercept information transmitted through
Thuraya Network channels. Thuraya Interception System provides:
• Interception of voice communication.
• Interception of Facsimile communications.
• Interception of short text messages.
• Interception of data transmitted between terminals of the system.
• Interception of call related information,
• Defining of geographical position of Thuraya terminals.
• Continued (2417) operation, processing and storage of information.
•Full range and flexible retrieval of stored information on the user demand.
• Issuing of reports and recommendations based on stored information assessments.

rah

IRIDIUM INTERCEPTION SYSTEM
IB0502
The Iridium satellite constellation is a system of 66 active communication satellites with
spares in orbit and on the ground. It allows world wide voice and data communications
using hand held satellite phones. The Iridium network is unique in that it covers the
whole earth, in cluding poles, oceans and airways. Iridium Interception System is in
tended to intercept in formation (voice, SMS, data) in IR communication channels.
The system is completely passive, does not interfere with satellite Communication
and therefore absolutely undetectable. Iridium Interception System consists of three
functional modules:
•MILEOSS (receiving and signal processing module)
•FSU (data accumulation module)
•VVPU(data processing module).

• " i i i

c•

1

CELLULARDETECTION8, JAMMING4111
1

CELLULAR PHONE DETECTION SYSTEM
IB0601
This mobile phones detection system is used by information security officers in military and defense facilities, where cellular traffic
control is required to prevent information leakage via GSM cell phones or any other cellular phones. System is used also in other
areas where cell phone use is forbidden, for example prison compounds. Each cellular phone detector is a small covert device that
can detect any required cellular standards and network simultaneously: GSM, UNITS - 3G, Nextel, CDMA, IDEN and more.
Connected to main control software which provides real time audio and visual alerts upon each event of cell
phone usage detection: attempt to send or receive a phone call, text message, multimedia message etc.
The software provides the guard in charge with online detailed information which is most useful
in order to easily locate and confiscate the detected unauthorized cellphone.
The software includes history log file with valuable information assisting in maintaining permanent information security in the facility.
Effective, user friendly, simple and easy to use.
Designed to offer a long term solution, this cellphone detection system is fully upgradeable:
New cellular standards can be added in the future cellphone detectors can detect multiple cellular frequencies simultaneously.
Detectors can be modified to include cellular jammers, operated only upon cellular phone detection.
This cellphone detection system has minimal maintenance requirements. The mobile phones detectors and software's
flexible design, makes the system compatible for any budget or facility size, from small rooms to large complexes.

Control System Operation
tot thrm r o l
ramp Mholwvir.4

Upteriolmom

A t a ,

teal Ewa*

I Zel M
1213a? IbiGS101101wom
120307 I r t uv.heitE owd

176 C•a•aa
1”Daaam

S.a.000

Features:
• Fully upgradeable
, • High sensitivity
•Easy to use control software
•Audio and visual alerts
Used by:
•Prison facilities
•Correctional facilities
•Government headquarters
• Military commandcenters
•Detention centers
• Border control checkpoints
•Law enforcement operations center

1
INTELLIGENCE & COUNTER MEASURES

6

•
•

•U.•
U.•

E

CELLULAR JAMMING AND DETECTION
IB0701
Aportable cell phone jammer. Remote-controlled and fully digitized, this cellulgr
jammer is designed for field missions that demand the combination of vehicle
use as well as independent use where no power source is available.
In the global war against crime and terrorism, military and law enforcement agencies came
to face a small, cheap and innocent looking weapon - cellular phones. Cell phones are
used by criminals and terror organizations as tactical tool for communication in routine
and during attacks or crimes. Attached to improvised explosive devices, cell phones
are also being used as a remote trigger for detonation, causing heavy casualties.
This portable cellphone jammer blocks all required cellular network standards
simultaneously: GSM, CDMA. TDMA, (MIS (3G), Nextel, 2.4 GHz and more. • •
Using its remote control, blocking range of this mobile phone jammers
can be easily adjusted. according to operational needs.
Optional spare batteries enable continuous and unlimited cellphone jamming.

VERY HIGH POWER PROGRAMMABLE CELL PHONE JAMMER
IB0702
Amodular cellular communications jammers, designed for fixed or vehicle installation, where high transmission
power and multiple frequency bands are required to block cellular communications within a large coverage area.
Housed in a 19" rack, and can be activated via 12124 Vdc power source or 1101220 Vac.
Used by security forces to block cellular phones in large outdoors areas in routine or
during emergency. Once the device is operated, it transmits accurate signals that disables
communication between cellular phones and cellular base stations, thereby creating a
cellphone-free zone. Inhibitor supports an unlimited frequency band composition according
to customer requirements. It can block all required cellular networks and standards
simultaneously, including GSM, CDMA, TDMA, M I S (3G), Nextel, 2.4 GHz and more.

ACOUSTIC NOISE GENERATOR
IB0703
Designed to defeat wired microphones inside walls, contact microphones, audio
transmitters located in AC outlets, and laser/microwave reflections from windows.
Specifications
• Size: 1-3/4 x 6 x 10 in (4.4 x 15.2 x 25.4 cm)
•Weight: 3,0 lbs (1.4 kg)
• Channels: Two
•Output voltage: 1-12 Vp-p @ 8 W (1-1/2 W min)
• Frequency range: 250 Hz - 5 kHz (±3d13)
•Power: 115-125 or 230-250 VAC 50-60 Hz 24 watts max

N'ts•

7 E Q U I P M E N T & TRAINING

•

•

SCRAMBLERS8,ENCODERS
ANI DISPLAY DECODERS/LOCAL
REMOTE CONTROLLERS
IB0801

MULTI-FORMAT ANI
DISPLAY DECODER
IB0802

Desktop Dispatch products enable the dispatcher to monitor
fleet communications and to identify and stop system
abusers. When the user keys up their radio a PTT ID or ANI
is transmitted. This ID can then be displayed on Midian's
DDU along with the time, alias and status (if applicable).

ANI Display Decoders enable the dispatcher or system
administrator to monitor fleet communications by identifying
which field radio keyed. This is used to identify system abusers,
accurately and timely identify emergency conditions, and
allows the dispatcher to know who he or she is talking with and
to assign calls fairly. When the user keys or unkeys the field
radio a PTT ID or ANI is transmitted. This PTT ID can then
be displayed on Midian's ADD series ANI display decoders.

COMPUTER AIDED DISPATCH
IB0803
Acomputer based ANI display decoder. It decodes and displays
the incoming ANI, as well as an alias, status, and the time and
date of the ANL Also decode leading, trailing, and Emergency ANI
and log the incoming information to a disk or printer. Allows the
dispatcher to remotely key-up a radio for a predetermined amount
of time to eavesdrop or triangulate on a particular field unit.

S I M M t a .
••••••••
•••••.••
VOW

11•MEMO

1-.••••

k••••••••••••••••

IMOMI m a .
M U M
0101M1“.•
O W = itin •
dimbh•M ••• • •
6•76M. W M *

6 . 0
b••••

•

mt. • • • •

cobWICI.0.1

estacw
0 1 0 11 • •

Mal

.••••••••'''
,••••

Me0.11
••••••

•

INMEN

a

OVEN • • • • •
•••••••

111101
INTELLIGENCE & COUNTER MEASURES

8

PROGRAMMABLE VOICE
SCRAMBLER
IB0804
The Programmable Voice Scrambler protects your voice
communications by mixing the frequency of the voice
with an inversion tone in a balanced modulator: sum and
difference frequencies are created. The Programmable
Voice Scrambler can be fitted into most radios.
Specifications:
Operating Temperature: -30 to +60 degrees Celsius
Operating Voltage: 4.75 15 VDC
Operating Current: TBD
Input Level: Programmable
Dimensions (inches): 1.59 L x 0.83 W x 0.19 H
Encryption Specifications: Inversion
Frequency Range: 2100 - 4096 Hz
Selectable Inversion Codes: 16

%I
TACTICAL VOICE SCRAMBLER
IB090

WIRELESS EAR-PIECE
I B0902

This tactical high-security, rolling code voice
scrambler offers protection against even
determined listeners. By using true frequency
hopping rather than frequency sweeping, The
Tactical Voice Scrambler offers higher security
than competitive rolling code voice scramblers.
The Tactical Voice Scrambler is ideal for
government (i.e. military) and public safety
users who are using man pack radios.

Af
under your collar. Connects to NOKIA mobile phones.
Lets you hear and speak without wires without the
people around you knowing. Includes a cleaning
set Battery life about 5 hors of transmission.

S • •

ENCRYPTED PHONE (SOFTWARE)
IB0903
Asoftware based that installed by license on regular mobile phone of NOKIA. Our encryption system
is software based. It utilizes the Nokiam'native processing power and does not require any additional
hardware. The only network requirement for the secure mobile is DATA CALL enabling which most
networks support.

SPY PHONE (SOFTWARE)
IB0904

SIM CARD ACCESS UNIT
IB0905

The Spy Phone is able to intercept cell phone conversations,
environmental conversations, also in switched off mode (phone
dead), incoming and outgoing SMS, incoming and outgoing call
list. notification SMS on boot, cell phone location track through
anSMS containing location name and its network cell ID.
Functions:
•Environmental hearing in switched off mode (phone dead)
•Environmental hearing available also without battery
• Environmental hearing, Call interception. SMS Interception

Ahandy mobile forensic add-on to ARY and )(ACT, is used
to examine mobile phones that don't have an original SIM
card, mobile phones that have a PIN locked SIM card or that
don't have a net connection. With the help of the card, the
user can create a SIM card that gives access to the mobile
phone without destroying the information: phonebook, call
lists and more. If the card is available and not PIN locked.
and you want to examine the cell phone without connecting
to the network to avoid incoming calls or text message.

-1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1

1/4011

WHOREBORNEJAMMERS
HUMMER - JAMMER
IB1001
The Hummer H2 is specially customized to accommodate a fully integrated broad band jamming system which provides the ultimate
solution for Military and Police convoys. The JAM system covers continuously and simultaneously the full spectrum of RF communication
frequencies from 20MHz to 3000MHz.
Using the latest jamming technology, the fourth generation of our JAM has an ultra high overall RE transmitting power of 1575 watts.
The jammer modules independent 10,000 watt AC generator back-up battery pack and all other components are hidden from view inside
the trunk and rear compartments of the vehicle. The systems omni directional antennas are all concealed beneath a berglass false roof. The
Operator's remote control panel, located near to the Driver provides quick access for full system control. Internal RF protection shielding
provides safety for Driver and Passenger. Optional armoring to level 66 is available for all our Military and VIP vehicles.
The system operates continuously in all weather and all road conditions.

1
INTELLIGENCE & COUNTER MEASURES 1 0
• M E

EOMEDJAMMERS
Ili U!
U. •
•
-

IED JAMMER
IB1101

7

a.

Abattle proven, modular wireless communication jammer, designed for vehicle or fixed
installation. Consisting multiple transmission frequency bands and high transmi;sion
power, used for force protection. The IED Jammer consists of a multi-channel jamming
transmitter and unique software. configured as a modular jamming system that allows
the end-user to select protection against any threat. Delivering powerful jamming signals
through a matching array of antennas. When installed in a vehicle it creates a secure
electronic shield around the anti-IED vehicle, providing IED protection to the entire team.
Applications:
•Convoy protection
•Anti-terror units
•Bomb squads
•VIP protection
• Elite military and police units
• Military bases

LIGHTWEIGHT BACKPACK IED JAMMER
!WW2
Designed for ground troops under risk of encountering remote controlled improvised explosive devices, known as
RCIEDs. Fully weatherproof, relatively small and backpack mounted, the backpack Jammer has a robust mechanical
design. addressing different frequency range requirements simultaneously. This back pack, man portable jammer
is blanketing a given area to prevent radio receivers from achieving RF signal for detonation of remote controlled
explosive weapons. equipped with long mission-life rechargeable batteries, allowing field use Based on advanced
research and development in counter IED technology, the backpack jammer can be configured to block different
frequency bands including: VHF, UHF, cell phones, satellite phones and more. This IED jamming device can be
programmed by connecting to a laptop computer equipped with Net line's counter IED configuration software.
The backpack bomb jammer is used by:
• Military ground troops
• Bomb disposal units
•Law enforcement agencies
• Elite units

EQUIPMENT & T R A I N I N G

SUB-TACTICAL UAV
IB1291
Sub-tactical unmanned aerial vehicle provides:
• Cost- effective intelligence.
• Surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) capabilities.
• Situational awareness.
•Force protection and security.
•Remote warfare operations.

The Sub-Tactical UAV is equipped with
an Electra-optical, day/night, stabilized
payload. Its advanced avionics provide
a fully manual to fully autonomous flight, combined with surveillance and recognition capabilities.
Atypically configured, fully fueled Sub-Tactical UAV weighs approx. 45 Kg, carries a mission specific payload of 12 Kg. and cruises at 60-70
Kts. for over 4hr. It can be fitted with a larger fuel tank to facilitate extended flight duration. The system is external-pilot-free. The 2 separate
ground control elements (mini-GCS & LRS) as well as a portable video receiving station allow for increased flexibility when deploying and
operating the system.

bAdt
INTELLIGENCE & COUNTER MEASURES

1 2

4 4 . 1 1 L
•

LIAV WITH AN INTEGRATED WEAPON SYSTEM
IB1301

a !

This UAV is capable of capturing and reporting intelligence data in real-time and day/night operation over a pre-determined target zone.
The UAV contains the necessary elements to achieve relevant missions, either as
astand-alone system or as an integral part of a totali
ntelligence and weapon delivery system.
Main features:
•Short ground take-off. Equipped with an arresting hook allowing a short landing.
•Maximum vehicle performance can be maintained with payloads up to 37 Kg.
• Short turn-around time. Assembly/disassembly requires a 3 person crew.
•Can, optionally, be launched from a catapult and retrieved by parachute deployment.
•Ample-electrical power (1800 watts) allows operation of Electro-optical and other payloads.
•Transportation and operation of the entire system requires no more then 2 HMMWV. One
for carrying the GCS/GOT and the other for the • UAV
• External/internal pilot control (with gyro-stabilization).
•Knobs control (speed, altitude and heading).
• Flight to coordinate.
• Flight program.
• Flight slaved to camera.
•Automatic holding pattern (figure 8) with selectable
orientation and dimensions.
•Emergency mode (in case of prolonged uplink loss).

ELECTRO OPTICAL DAY/NIGHT PAYLOAD
IB1302
High performance, Electro optical, day/night payload, which its extreme light weight enables to
reduce the UAV's size substantially. Specially designed for air vehicles in which space and weight
are critical issues. It operates during both daytime and nighttime conditions and provides real
time video pictures of the target while remotely controlled from the ground control station, via the
communication link. It also provides reports regarding its orientation in space in relation to the UAV
axis. Designed to be installed at the aircraft nose however belly mounting is also possible.

1

PERSONAL TRACKER
IB1401
Specifications:
Weight with Batteries: 13.5 oz
Dimensions (antenna folded):
81/4" X 2" X 11/2"
Dimensions (antenna unfolded):
81/4' X 16" X 11/2"
Spurious emission: <2 pW
Intercept point: -20 dBm > 2 dB
Operating voltage: 7 - 10 V DC
Battery types:
9VAlkaline / 6LR61 - 6AM6EU
Sensitivity (IEEE Std. Test): -136 dB
Modulation: Al
DAAA: >130 dB
Audio frequency power: Max. 70 mW
Operating temperature: 14 - 1220 F
Storage temperature: 14 - 1310 F
Frequencies available:
433.000 to 434.999 MHz

Accessories:
(1)Antenna
Afolding antenna connects to the
SMAconnector on the receiver.
(2) Rooftop Omni Antenna
This antenna has a magnetic
base that attaches to the roof of
avehicle and picks up signals
coming from all directions.
(3) Headphones
Suitable for use in a vehicle
or aircraft.(4) AC Adapter
Use this adapter to power the
system from a vehicle power
point or cigarette lighter.
(2)

(

(4)

TRANSMITTER
1131402

TRANSMITTER
IB1403

The 0.175 ounce 1.1 emits a powerful signal for up to 20 miles
provided line of sight. The batteries can operate continuously
for 12-14 days. The 1.2 can be detected from up to 30 miles
away and can operate continuously for 35 days.

The small and lightweight Tag transmitters
can be wired to a variety of batteries for a
long battery life of up to 5 years and are
sealed in epoxy to improve durability

TRANSMITTER
1131404

TRANSMITTER
1131405

The tags are small, lightweight and easy to hide and come
with a variety of sensors. Can be hidden. It sends a steady
transmission which allows tracking its whereabouts. When
the container is opened and the Tag is exposed to light for 2
seconds, the pulse rate increases. For items that should not
move, the Sleeper Tag can sit in standby for over 10 years.

Offers the best combination of
output, size and battery life in
the entire TAR transmitter line.

-• •

-61.14,-1.111111•Enologe

INTELLIGENCE & COUNTER MEASURES 1 4

PORTABLE RF DIRECTION
FINDING SYSTEM
IB1501
Provides a high performance RF Direction Finding
System that can be easily transported to
any destination and deployed in most hard roofed
vehicles in less than 30 minutes.
Supplied with:
• Magnetic mount, external discrete receive antenna
•Magnetic mount transmit antenna
•Separate GPS antenn a
• Small, lightweight PC with 8" touch screen
•Wheeled Pelican Case
When deployed the main modules can be concealed within the
passenger or luggage compartment of the vehicle. The power supply
is obtained from the vehicle's 12v cigarette lighter port and an optional
battery back-up can be fitted. The GPS antenna is normally deployed
on the rear parcel shelf, minimizing the number of external antenna.

ADVANCED LOCATING SYSTEM
I B1502
Comprises of: M9100 Receiver Base Unit. M9113-01ARGOS co*iatible Plug In Module (PIM). M9402B
Antenna Array, M9204 PC and M9203 Display Unit. Designed for installation in
demanding mobile and airborne environments and engineered to produce very low
levels of electro-magnetic noise to prevent self-quieting. Has a dedicated Demodulator
to recover ARGOS Beacon ID, GPS and payload data transmitted by LDA2-type
beacons. An advanced GUI allows the operator to discriminate between the target
beacon. other beacons and interferers using a variety of user-defined filters. As well as
indicating the targets direction, the GUI can also display the targets GPS position.

LOCATING TAG
IB1503
For use with the Advanced Locating Systems.
An external device can be connected to the trigger input to activate an alarm signal within the system. The unit is supplied
with or without a fiat lithium cell, but can be connected to any suitable external power source of 3V. A voltage regulator
is available to enable connection to supplies from 3v to 12v. The transmitter radiates 10mW within 400 Band.
Typical range to a mobile platform is of 1 to 3 km, dependant upon the environment,
antenna and deployment location.
Featuers:
• Very small device for easy concealment.
•Unpackaged format for maximum deployment flexibility.
• Internal vibration sensor.
• Flexible antenna and power supply options.
•Unique ID.
• Low power, narrow band pulsed transmission for minimum detection risk.
•Wide frequency range so compatible with both Receivers.
•External Trigger.

15 E Q U I P M E N T & T R A I N I N G

OPTICSFINDER
OPTIC AND OPTOELECTRONICS
SYSTEMS DETECTION DEVICE
IB1601
Detects all existing types of optics:
sniper sights, binoculars, night vision, lasers,
IR. photo/video and pinhole cameras.
Featuers:
Detection range: 1200 up to 1500m.
• Work from batteries and AC mains 24/7
• Detect sniper sights with or without
mesh/honeycomb filters (Not Possible with
Conventional Optics - NPWCO)
•Detect optics used behind nylon curtains/veils, through
multiple double glazed and/or tinted windscreens and windows.
• Work uninterruptedly against bright light/flashes (NPWCO)
•Detect IR cameras hidden behind IR filter (NPWCO)
•Detect laser audio-monitoring equipment (NPWCO)
•Does not detect pinholes. It detects optics:
•From a building into a car and vice versa
•From a building into another building
• From outside into a building and a car and vice versa (NPWC0)•
• Has a video output which enables,
•Use of a monitor
• Video information recording (NPWCO)
• Shows distance to the target etc.
Lightweight and portable, they are used for Heads of States/VIP
protection. anti-terrorist operations, counter-surveillance/espionage.
protection of sensitive areas, buildings, petroleum/chemical
facilities, nuclear power plants, airfields, border patrol.
Ideal for covert operations and anti-paparazzi use.

INTELLIGENCE & COUNTER MEASURES 1 6

OBSERVATIONSYSTEM
VEHICLE MOUNTED OBSERVATION SYSTEM
IB1701
Integrating an uncooled thermal imager for night observation in complete darkneks. and a CCD
camera for day observation. Both sensors are mounted on a robust and highly precise pan and
tilt unit, enabling the user to control the system form inside the vehicle. The system incorporates
aunique control and display unit (CDU) installed inside of the vehicle, allowing the operator to
control all system sensors and pan-tilt functions.

DAY / NIGHT OBSERVATION SYSTEM
IB1702
The uniqueness of the system is in its versatility
and ability to combine different
electro-optical sensors and devices within a single observation system.
Features:
• Border control and perimeter security
• Visual intelligence gathering—suitable for
short to long range surveillance
•Variety of operational applications: tripod,
tower and reconnaissance vehicle
• Friendly user interface
• Modular and
versatile system
•Remote Control via
wireless, cable. fiber
optic communication
•Integrates with:
Radar, Intrusion
detection fence, VMD

17 E Q U I P M E N T & T R A I N I N G

VEHCILE DVR SYSTEM
IB1801
The Vehicle DVR system is high performance, industrial strength
digital video recorder and transmission system available in a range of
models optimized for all types of commercial & industrial environments
live video to PDAs, Cell Phones, PCs, live video streaming over
cellular networks, over WiR networks, over LANs/WANs
Features:
• High quality video transmission requiring low bandwidth
• Live video monitoring any time, anywhere over
TCP/IP cellular and WiFi networks
• Integration of input sensors and output activation sensors
• Event detection via Video Motion Detection (VMD),
input sensor or internal video-lost sensor
• Event notifications via e-mail. SMS or pop-up alarm
•Remote Pan-Tilt-Zoom (PIZ) control. even from PDAs and mobile phones
• Full integration of audio and video
• Minimal disk usage for recorded video
• Downloading of video for storage on remote PCs

HEADSET SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM
IB1802
Features:
• Super Color High Resolution Camera
• Patented Headset
• Instant Color Playback Screen (DVR)
• 720 x 576 Resolution
• 100GB Suspended Hard Drive
• Instant Playback
• 4" Screen size
• Stores up to 400 hours of MPEG-4 Digital Video
• Full Digital Audio Recording
• 12—15 hour battery (will cover an 8 hour'stlift)

1
INTELLIGENCE & COUNTER MEASURES 1 8

I

VIDEO/AUDIO TRANSMITTER & RECIEVER
IB1901
Transmitter:
Based on the Fujitsu MPEG-2 System.
This is special developed DSP for real time video compression. Bases on this has
developed an encoder board for D-ATV application which incorporates the necessary
peripheral components like SDRAMs, audio and video codecs as well as all required
power supply demands (3,3 and 1,8V). Supports the formats SIF (352X288 Pixel), HD1
(352X576 Pixel),D1 (720X576 Pixel) at data rates from 0.5 Mbilis to 15 Mbilis. This data
rate includes a 20-bit-stereo audio channel. The encoder firmware can individually be
adjusted an is launched during system start. Data out supplies a transport-stream (SPI)
according to ISO/IEC 13818 to an 8 bit TS-Interface with clock and Frame sync signal.
Reciever:
DVB-T-Modulator
This system has one transport stream input for connecting a multiplexor. To the multiplexor,
again, up to four encoders can be connected. The RF-Baseband output uses a carrier
frequency of 3.5-70 MHz (adjustable in 125-kHz-steps) and an amplitude of 75-90dB The
COMM-Modulator generates all necessary GuardIntervals. FECs and transmission modi (OPSK, 16QAM
and 640AM). Used will be the 2k mode and the 8k
mode according to ETSI EN 300 744V 1.4.1.All operating
voltages are generated on the board, the input voltage
range is 7-24V. The power consumption is about 5VV.

INTEGRATED TACTICAL SURVEILLANCE
IB1902
Features:
• Compact and Portable System
•Integrated Video Screen
•Mapping Display Screen
•Displaying a combination of up to 9 CCTV and Wireless Cameras
•Up to 64 Unattended Ground Sensors (UGS)
•Capable of integration with either a Long-range
Narrowband or Through-WallUVVBRadar unit
• Includes a Panic Pager Network System for Team Alert
•DSWesigned in a modular format to provide a reliable perimeter
protection solution for field forces while still providing remote
surveillance intelligence through the deployment of a wide range of
encrypted communications, covert sensors and cameras units.

19 E Q U I P M E N T & T R A I N I N G

riba

DETECTIONSYSTEMS
COMPONENT NEARFIELD INDICATOR
IB2001
Component Nearfield indicator is used to detect places of concealed
setups of different active radio transmitters. The device sends light
and sound signals when it detects a radio transmitter. The
device does not require preliminary adjustment of settings or response levels with
respect to electromagnetic environment in the inspected premises: it reveals a low level
of response to the signals of distant sources and a low false-detection probability.

PICTORIAL FIELD INDICATOR
IB2002
The pictorial field indicator is used to detect and localize radio
transmitters used for eavesdropping. This includes cell phones
and Bluetooth devices in the detection zone. Operation of
the field indicator is based on the principle of a fast-speed
sweep receiver with a wideband receive channel.

CAMERA SCANNER
1132003
Wireless palm size camera scanner, A portable, user friendly scanner, Detects
the transmissions of wireless cameras. manually or automatically.
Specifications:
-Dimensions: 120X74X35mm.
Wight: 240 gr.
ISM band: 900-2520MHz
Antenna: SMA
Battery working time: 3Hrs approximately (depends on monitor working time)
Power input: 5V DC, 650mA (Max.). Or AA Battery 1.5V DC X 4
Video display: 2.5 Inch, color TFT monitor.
Frequency display: LCM
Auto scan: once - 1MHz/sec, fast-forward - 10MHz/sec.

I

41
I N T E L L I G E N C E & COUNTER MEASURES 2 0

SIGNAL DETECTOR
IB2101
This handheld frequency detector gives an indication on the signal strength then locks
on it automatically and plays the signal through the built in speaker or the earpho'nes
Detects frequencies frequency 6 GHZ- 50Mhz detect all the audio video cellular ext. The
device has a double indication by sound and 3 lights that indicate the signal strength.

PICTORIAL FIELD INDICATOR
I B2102
The pictorial field indicator is used to detect and localize radio transmitters
used for eavesdropping. This includes cell phones and Bluetooth devices in
the detection zone. Operation of the field indicator is based on the principle
of a fast-speed sweep receiver with a wideband receive channel.

FREQUENCY READER
IB2103
Handheld professional eavesdropping transmitter detector, easy to operate with digital display
detects digital transitions. on/off, analog signals on frequencies between 30 MHZ and 2.8 GHz.
Specifications
Impedance: 50 Ohms
Frequency range: 30 Mhz- 2.8 Ghz
Sensitivity: less then 5 rriV
Resolution: 10 Khz for digital signals or on/off keying
1KHz for analog signals
Weight: 210 g
Size: 80(h) x 68(w) x 31(d)mm

1.

21 E Q U I P M E N T & T R A I N I N G

VOICEANALYSIS
VOICE LIE DETECTOR
IB2201
An innovative, highly advanced, sophisticated software system that is specifically designed to provide the
professional user easy access to truth verification and emotion identification by using vocal parameters
The system is designed for security officials: governments and security organizations, law enforcement agencies
and immigration authorities, police, military and private investigators. For these users, faster verification
means more efficiency which translates into cost effectiveness of the decision making process.
The system is a combination of three different tools:
Online Mode - for quick and immediate analysis during an open-ended interview, this occurs in real time
Offline Mode - for an in-depth analysis of prerecorded material
Investigation Mode - for a predefined closed-ended question analysis relating to a specific issue, It is similar to the
questions used for traditional polygraph examinations and uses the same techniques, e.g., COT. POT, etc.
The system offers a new analysis technique for all these modes of operations. The "Rich Psychological Analysis"
(R.P.A) is automatically generated in all of the modes. In addition, for cases in which you require additional tools to
analyze results, LVA provides two sets of graph displays for easy and convenient manual analysis. LVA was designed
to be as friendly as possible while still offering maximum reliability and a familiar Windows environment.
The system uses "psychological patterns" detection as well as three different and independent equations. These equations
distinguish between stress resulting from excitement and any other emotional stress. Distinctions are also made between
confusion and other cognitive or global stress resulting from the circumstances surrounding the issue being discussed. It
also distinguishes between 'acceptable levels" of stress and between stresses emanating from attempts at deception.
The system detects levels of tension, rejection, fear, embarrassment and attempts to outsmart or answer cynically. It also
measures the subject's level of thinking. LVA also measures the willingness of the subject to answer in the relatively new Stop
or Say (SOS) parameter. Using Deception Patterns, LVA can achieve the greatest accuracy rate in detecting deceptions.
On-Line Mode
..11.11tt
met,,

1 . 0 1 0

Name

11E2

Adarks

• Male

Mad
re-level%

Tasting ( 3 1 )
F o n a l o

HIGH STRESS

I
Warning Level

St.e. is5uel G r a P r i s itiutep 3d Om Udia•4,' segrent 4,111

itotallbellte I

Lock Mixer

a,„ ECM
KEW I MEM
Full
Graph
View

Is"

-

Pigpen

EtlitOr

I,

Quick Analysis : No Deception Indicated...
65
.13 I

INTELLIGENCE & COUNTER MEASURES 2 2

r LvItezo

r

TPtoo-L.•no I 3 v a A 41111.

• in
•

•

•

PRE-EMPLOYMENT VOICE TEST
IB2301
Available to help meet this challenge. Aptitude tests, background checks and personality profiling aid in the
assessment of technical skills, prior experience, and overall credentials of a candidate. But what can employers do
to reduce the threat of liability that a potential employee may pose in the future? How can you accurately identify a
candidate's level of risk regarding unlawful acts such as theft, drug use, bribery, or general lack of integrity?
Introducing LVAi Automated Integrity Assessment
•Fully automated testing, assessment and reporting
•Promotes fair hiring practices by providing non-biased assessments
•Customizable test topics to meet your organizations evolving needs
• Language-independent: analyses responses spoken in any language
•Helps protect your organization from potential workforce liabilities
SIA

Applicant Details

R

i

s

k

Analysis Results

T

e

s

t

ID 0710.0000010

coned...114es and secrecy

Name: Smith. Alan ( 0 1 i 0 2 1

tioneety

Test Type : Default iEnglish)
Loyalty

Test Date: 0 8 / 1 = 0 0 7 16:21:51

Then !tont ilt• woikplate

Tested for: TeleShos. Field Technician

Bilb•ty anti kickbacks

ID Number 900800700

Ft and and deceit

Phone 214 555 70800
Mobile

crimiesh.b.11.1 and ctedlidlity history

ems ru•ag•

•

E•mail SianSatemp COM

Alcohol consumption

Gender Male

Gambn
il g' 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 • 1 . 1 1 1

Years of expenence informer posit On 4-7 W a r n i n g Log Reporl
Address

,

Hia x

c_h_..

, High Risk in itiestiom Credibility hhaory - general
a High Risk in intention, Reaction to a co-worker taking bribe
a High Risk in questiom Personally teceiving kickbacks
a High Risk in question, Reason lot gambling
• High Risk in question: Overall gambling activity

11•11=r

23 E Q U I P M E N T & T R A I N I N G

S

•

