Blue Coat SG510 Quick Start Guide
This Blue Coat Quick Start Guide describes how to rack-mount the Blue Coat SG510 and explains the initial
configuration methods.

The Blue Coat SG510 is shipped with the following components:
• Blue Coat SG510 appliance

• Disk drive

• AC power cord

• Null-modem serial cable

• Null-modem serial cable

• Packet: Safety/Conformity

• Packet: Software license sticker card and software license agreement
For initial configuration, you must know the following. Use the back page of this document to record
this information:
• IP address, subnet mask,
• Administration access names and passwords to be
gateway and DNS to be assigned.
assigned to this SG510.
• (Optional, 5.1.x and later only) Application Delivery Network (ADN) goals and traffic
intercept choices.

The Blue Coat SG510 ships with the mounting brackets already attached to the appliance. Slide the
appliance into the rack and secure each bracket ear to the front rack posts (two screws each side, not
supplied).

Document Number: 231-02823 Revision: C.0—07/06

1

Blue Coat SG510 Quick Start Guide

Attach cords:
a. The two full-duplex, auto-sensing Ethernet network adapters supporting 10/100/1000 BaseT connections are labeled 0 and 1. Plug the network cable into adapter 0. (Optional)
Interface 1 is used to connect to another proxy (for example, bridging configuration) or
network device as determined by your deployment.
b. (Optional) If you ordered an option card (supporting bridging or fiber channel), it arrived in a
separate shipment. Follow the installation instructions enclosed with the card.
c. (Optional) Attach a serial cable to connect the system to a PC, serial terminal, or stand-alone
Serial Console box.
d. Plug the enclosed power cord into the power cord receptacle and into a power source. This
powers on the Blue Coat SG510 (there is no power switch).
e. (Optional) Attach the cable management support bracket.

Document Number: 231-02823 Revision: C.0—07/06

3

Blue Coat SG510 Quick Start Guide

Verify that the Blue Coat SG510 has powered on successfully:
a. The Power LED lights up amber and remains amber until initial configuration is complete.
b. After a moment, the two Disk Drive LEDs (or how many you installed, starting with slot 1)
corresponding to the disk drives installed light up green.
c. The LAN LEDs indicate the SG510 is communicating with the network.
d. The LCD displays Blue Coat.
Note: See the Troubleshooting section on page 10 if lights are not the correct colors.

Document Number: 231-02823 Revision: C.0—07/06

4

Blue Coat SG510 Quick Start Guide

If this SG510 shipped with
SGOS 4.2.x installed, you
can use the front panel or a
serial console to configure
the initial network settings.
You can also access a
Web-based wizard from a
PC residing on the same
subnet.

If this SG510 shipped with SGOS 5.1.x (or later) installed, you
have two choices:
•

Use the front panel or serial console to assign the
appliance IP, DNS, and gateway addresses, then access
a Web-based wizard to set access credentials, configure
Application Delivery Network (ADN) options, and select
what traffic type(s) to intercept and the default allow/deny
policy.

•

Continue with the front panel or serial console connection
to set access credentials.

Note: The back panel provides a table of settings. Use this to record configuration values.

Document Number: 231-02823 Revision: C.0—07/06

5

Blue Coat SG510 Quick Start Guide

1

When the LCD displays IP address not configured, press the Enter button to enter Configure mode.
The IP address parameter appears in the LCD, and the cursor appears as an underscore.

2

Press the Enter button again to enter Edit mode.
The cursor changes to a blinking box.

3

Press the Left or Right arrow buttons to position the cursor over the characters you want to change; press
the Up or Down arrow buttons to change them.

4

When you have the characters of the parameter entered correctly, press the Enter button to save the
changes and return to Configure mode.

5

Press the Down arrow button to move to the next parameter; press the Enter button to enter Edit mode.

6

Repeat Steps 3 through 5 for the Subnet mask, Gateway address, DNS address parameters, console
password, enable password.
(SGOS 4.2.x only) During initial configuration, the Blue Coat SG510 generates and displays a complex
admin password, which is not displayed again. Record this password. It can be changed after initial
configuration is complete.
(SGOS 5.1.x and later only) After the DNS address parameter, you are asked if you want to continue using
the Web Setup Wizard.
•

Select No to continue to configure using the front panel.

•

7
8

Select Yes to finish using the wizard, which allows you to configure ADN and service options.
Proceed to Step 6c.
Optional: Secure the serial port. If you secure the serial port and lose the password, you must restore the
appliance to its original factory defaults to access the CLI or Management Console.
Initial configuration is now complete. Proceed to Installation Step 7, “Log on to the Blue Coat SG510” on
page 9.
For detailed, front-panel configuration instructions, refer to the Blue Coat SG510 Series Installation Guide.
Note:

By default, the LCD automatically dims after 30 seconds without activity. Press any
control button once to relight the LCD. This behavior is configurable—for information,
refer to the Blue Coat SG510 Series Installation Guide.

Document Number: 231-02823 Revision: C.0—07/06

6

Blue Coat SG510 Quick Start Guide

To access the serial console:
1. Configure the terminal or PC terminal emulation software as follows:
• Baud rate: 9600 bps

• Data bits: 8

• Parity: none

• Stop bits: 1

• Flow control: none

• Smooth-scroll: disabled

2. If your console was already configured before powering on the SG510, you should
see the configuration alert. If not, power down the SG510 and power back up after
configuring the terminal. The system prompts you with the following:
********** SYSTEM STARTUP TEMPORARILY SUSPENDED **********
Press "enter" three times to activate the serial console

3. As instructed, press <Enter> three times to begin the initial configuration procedure.
Enter basic network information as prompted.
4. (SGOS 5.1.x and later only) After the DNS address parameter, you are asked if you
want to continue using the Web-based wizard.
a. Press N to continue to configure using the serial console. When you complete the
procedure, proceed to Step 7.
b. Press Y to finish using the wizard, which allows you to configure ADN and service
options. Proceed to Step 6c.

Document Number: 231-02823 Revision: C.0—07/06

7

Blue Coat SG510 Quick Start Guide

Open a browser and enter the following URL:
https://IP_address:8083

where IP_address is the one you specified during the initial configuration in 6a or 6b.
When the SG510 connects, the setup wizard appears. Each page is described and includes
mouse-over help. Enter information on each screen, as prompted (the network settings you
entered from the front panel or serial console are already filled in):
• Console username and password

• CLI (enable mode) password

• Serial port password

• Front panel PIN

• ADN Manager addresses

• Decision: Intercept traffic types

• Default policy: allow/deny
Note: The Web-based wizard is only available the first time the appliance is configured (or
following a reset to factory defaults). Once Configure is clicked during the final step, the

wizard is no longer available.
When you complete the wizard, proceed to Step 7.

Document Number: 231-02823 Revision: C.0—07/06

8

Blue Coat SG510 Quick Start Guide

Important: To activate the SG510 license, you must register your hardware and install the license. To do
this, you must have a Blue Coat WebPower account. If you do not yet have an account, go to:
http://www.bluecoat.com/support/services/webpower_form.html
To activate the SG510 license:
1. Open a Web browser. Ensure that the pop-up blocker is disabled.
2. Enter the IP address you assigned this appliance during initial setup: https://ip_address:8082
3. Enter the access credentials, as specified during initial setup.
4. Click Management Console. The license warning/registration screen appears. Enter your WebPower
credentials and click Register Now; this automatically registers the hardware and displays the License
Configuration and Management page.
5. Enter using your WebPower credentials. Select the correct serial number; enter software serial number;
click Apply.
6. From the Management Console, navigate to the License page to begin the retrieval process:
Maintenance>Licensing>Install.
7. Click Retrieve. The Request License Key dialog displays. Enter your WebPower credentials and click
Send Request.
8. To verify license installation, click the View tab and click Refresh Data.
If you require detailed procedures regarding registration, license retrieval, and installation, refer to the
Licensing chapter in the Blue Coat ProxySG CMG Volume 2: Getting Started document, or click the Help
button to view the contents of this chapter in HTML format.
Blue Coat recommends attaching one of the software license stickers to the chassis and saving the other
one for future reference. You can attach it to this document and file it, or attach it to another document as
required in your enterprise.

Document Number: 231-02823 Revision: C.0—07/06

9

Blue Coat SG510 Quick Start Guide

Problem:
One or more of my Disk Drive LEDs are not on, but drives are installed.
Solution:
The disk might not be set in securely. Open the front panel, press latch release for the problem drive, pull
drive out a bit, re-insert and secure the latch closed. Check the front panel to see if the Disk Drive light is
now on. If it is not, the drive might be bad and must be replaced.
Problem:
The Power and Disk Drive LEDs are green, but I apparently do not have a network connection.
Solution:
Check the network connections to verify they are not loose. Otherwise, the problem might be a bad network
cable or possibly a problem with your router/switch.
Problem:
I cannot access the Web Setup Wizard from my browser.
Solution:
Attempt one or more of the following, as required:
❐

Attempt to access an external site, such as www.bluecoat.com, to verify Internet connectivity.

❐

Verify the browser is not proxied.

❐

Verify all SG510 hardware connections.

❐

Ping the SG510 or have the SG510 ping other devices on the network, such as its gateway.

❐

Once the appliance is configured, the Web Setup Wizard is not available. If you suspect this
SG510 has already be configured, but you require the configurations to change, you can reset the
appliance to its factory defaults. Refer to the Blue Coat SG510 Series Installation Guide.

Use another method, such as the serial console.

Document Number: 231-02823 Revision: C.0—07/06

10

Blue Coat SG510 Quick Start Guide

❐

How to Contact Support—When contacting Blue Coat Systems for technical phone support or to setup an RMA,
be prepared to provide Blue Coat your serial number to verify entitlement.
If you have purchased a Support Contract but have not received a Support Contract Certificate, send an e-mail to

support.services@bluecoat.com, and provide your product model, serial number(s) and contact information.
For the current list of regional customer support phone numbers, see:
http://www.bluecoat.com/support/contact.html
❐

WebPower—Customers who have an active Blue Coat Support Contract will be provided access to WebPower, Blue
Coat's online Case Management Tool. WebPower allows you to create new technical support cases, review open
cases, and add comments to existing cases online at any time. Web Power also provides you with access to exclusive
Blue Coat support materials, installation notes, and OS updates. To obtain a Web Power Login, navigate to:
http://www.bluecoat.com/support/services/webpower_form.html, and provide your name, company name, email address, telephone number, product model and serial number.

❐

How to Purchase Support—When acquiring a Blue Coat product, the company recommends that you purchase a
Blue Coat Support Contract which are available from any Blue Coat Reseller. Information about Blue Coat Support
Services can be found at:
http://www.bluecoat.com/support/services/index.html.
For more information about purchasing a Support Contract, contact Blue Coat Sales:
E-mail: sales@bluecoat.com or service.quotes@bluecoat.com.
Telephone: Toll Free in North America at 1-866-982-2628 (1-866-38-BCOAT), or North America Direct at 1408-220-2299.

Document Number: 231-02823 Revision: C.0—07/06

11

Blue Coat SG510 Quick Start Guide

Contact Information
Blue Coat Systems Inc.
420 North Mary Ave
Sunnyvale, CA 94085-4121
http://www.bluecoat.com/support/index.html
bcs.info@bluecoat.com
support@bluecoat.com
http://www.bluecoat.com
For concerns or feedback about the documentation: documentation@bluecoat.com
Copyright© 1999-2006 Blue Coat Systems, Inc. All rights reserved worldwide. No part of this document may be reproduced by any means
nor modified, decompiled, disassembled, published or distributed, in whole or in part, or translated to any electronic medium or other
means without the written consent of Blue Coat Systems, Inc. All right, title and interest in and to the Software and documentation are
and shall remain the exclusive property of Blue Coat Systems, Inc. and its licensors. ProxySG™, ProxyAV™, CacheOS™, SGOS™,
Spyware Interceptor™, Scope™, RA Connector™, RA Manager™, Remote Access™ are trademarks of Blue Coat Systems, Inc. and
CacheFlow®, Blue Coat®, Accelerating The Internet®, WinProxy®, AccessNow®, Ositis®, Powering Internet Management®, The
Ultimate Internet Sharing Solution®, Permeo®, Permeo Technologies, Inc.®, and the Permeo logo are registered trademarks of Blue Coat
Systems, Inc. All other trademarks contained in this document and in the Software are the property of their respective owners.
BLUE COAT SYSTEMS, INC. DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, CONDITIONS OR OTHER TERMS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, ON SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION FURNISHED HEREUNDER INCLUDING WITHOUT
LIMITATION THE WARRANTIES OF DESIGN, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL BLUE COAT SYSTEMS, INC., ITS SUPPLIERS OR ITS LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DAMAGES, WHETHER ARISING IN TORT, CONTRACT OR ANY OTHER LEGAL THEORY EVEN IF BLUE COAT SYSTEMS,
INC. HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

Document Number: 231-02823 Revision: C.0—07/06

12

Blue Coat SG510 Quick Start Guide
Installation Checklist
You can photocopy this page and use it as you install Blue Coat appliances.
Conventions:
❐

Bold—Required.

❐

Regular font—Recommended/optional.
Task
❏

Unpack appliance package and check for all
included parts.

❏

Review all safety notices.

❏

Connect the SG510 to your network (Interface 0).

❏

(Optional) Interface 1 is for connecting to another proxy
or network device.

❏

(Optional) Connect a serial console or PC with terminal
emulation software.

❏

Power on the appliance.

❏

Perform initial configuration:
(4.2.x) Front panel, serial console, or Web-based
wizard.

Reference

This Quick Start Guide and the Safety/
Conformity document.

CMG: Volume 2: Getting Started

The Blue Coat SG510 Series Installation
Guide.

(5.1.x >) Front panel or serial console for initial IP
information; complete with the wizard.
❏

License the appliance.

CMG: Volume 2: Getting Started.

❏

Upgrade the OS to the latest version.

CMG: Volume 10: Managing the ProxySG.

❏

Set the appliance name. Blue Coat recommends the
following convention:

CMG: Volume 2: Getting Started.

customer_name-state/country_abbreviation-model.
For example: BlueCoat-CA-Sunnyvale-510-1.
❏

Set the system time.

❏

Employ a filter list to restrict access to the SG510.

❏

Configure the appliance as transparent or explicit.

Document Number: 231-02823 Revision: C.0—07/06

CMG: Volume 2: Getting Started.

13

Blue Coat SG510 Quick Start Guide
Notes

Document Number: 231-02823 Revision: C.0—07/06

14

Blue Coat SG510 Quick Start Guide
Notes

Document Number: 231-02823 Revision: C.0—07/06

15

Blue Coat SG510 Quick Start Guide
Settings For This Appliance
Use this table to record the network settings for this SG510. If you are unaware of what these settings are to be,
contact your network manager. Use caution if you record passwords here. Store in a secure location.
Parameter

Setting

Parameter

IP address

Subnet mask

Gateway address

DNS server

Console username

Console password

Enable (CLI) password

Serial port password

Setting

Front panel pin
The following parameters are only configurable through the Web-based Wizard
Primary ADN
Manager IP address

Backup ADN Manager
IP address

Server subnet 1

Server subnet 2

(IP/Mask)

(IP/Mask)

Server subnet 3

Server subnet 4

(IP/Mask)

(IP/Mask)

Intercept traffic? (5.1.x
or later only)

Circle: Yes / No

Initial policy

Circle: Allow / Deny

Document Number: 231-02823 Revision: C.0—07/06

Traffic to intercept (5.1.x
or later only)

Circle: CIFS / FTP / HTTP /
IM / Exchange-Outlook /
Streaming /
Optimize other TCP traffic

16

