Enabling location-based services through
passive monitoring techniques:
Mobile positioning with the HINTON Locator probe

A White Paper from Telesoft Technologies
DX-HIN-GEN-MK-WP-32640-02

Contents
Executive Summary................................................................................................................................................3
Introduction..............................................................................................................................................................4
Mobile Location Services – an Opportunity .......................................................................................................4
Mobility Management, Cell Allocation and Control in GSM Mobile Networks .............................................6
Mobile Network Architecture ................................................................................................................................6
Mobility Management............................................................................................................................................7
The role of the Base Station Subsystem .............................................................................................................7
GSM Location Techniques ....................................................................................................................................8
Positional Accuracy...............................................................................................................................................8
Cell Global Identity Positioning ............................................................................................................................9
Location Area / Handover Update Positioning ..................................................................................................10
Timing Advance Positioning ...............................................................................................................................10
Signal Strength Positioning ................................................................................................................................11
Location Measurement Infrastructure...............................................................................................................11
HINTON Location Techniques ............................................................................................................................13
Conclusion .............................................................................................................................................................14
References .............................................................................................................................................................15
Glossary .................................................................................................................................................................16
Appendix A: Mobile Network Architecture .......................................................................................................17
Architectural Basics.............................................................................................................................................17
The Um Interface.................................................................................................................................................18
The Abis Interface ...............................................................................................................................................18
The A-Interface....................................................................................................................................................18
Appendix B: Mobile Network Codes..................................................................................................................20
Mobile Network Codes........................................................................................................................................20

White Paper - Enabling location-based services through passive monitoring techniques

2

Executive Summary
The geographical location of mobile subscribers has become an important topic with profound implications
for a wide range of applications, known generically as “Location-Based Services” (LBS). Alongside the
commercial opportunity for LBS applications, legal and social obligations – such as lawful interception and
intelligence-related data acquisition, and public Emergency E911/E112 services – also depend on the
acquisition of subscribers’ geographical location information. These services can be extremely valuable, both
for gathering intelligence and for the support of value added services (VAS). Moreover, the potential for such
services has only recently started to be exploited, and the value associated with these is likely to increase
significantly in the coming years. Analyst firm ABI Research predicts growth in commercial LBS from $111
million in 2008 to $2.2 billion by 2013.
In order to support LBS, the position of mobile devices must be determined accurately and consistently. It is
possible to interrogate the parameters in mobile network signalling via the use of passive monitoring probe
solutions. To achieve this, probes need to be deployed at the edge of the network, as close as possible to
the radio interface used by mobile terminals for communication. There is a trade-off between the most
accurate rendering of such data and the cost of deploying such systems as overlays into a mobile network.
There are a variety of techniques that can be used to provide information to support LBS. Each has different
levels of accuracy, but there is also a cost associated with each. However, there are other techniques which,
when combined, can generate resolution within a range of 100 – 500m, which is sufficient for a wide range of
potential applications, including emergency service access under US E911 laws. Collectively, techniques
which depend on data available over wired or physical connections are known as “network based”, in
contrast to those that are made via direct interaction with the radio interfaces. Network-based techniques are
not only much simpler and more cost effective to deploy, they also depend on information that is intrinsic to
the mobile network. Mobile location data needs to be presented to equipment where it can be processed and
accessed by applications.
In order to cost-effectively deploy and leverage the potential of LBS, a lightweight, passive solution that is
capable of collecting location data from appropriate interfaces is required. The HINTON Locator meets this
requirement, and leverages functionality inherent in the mobile network to capture location-related signalling
information, allowing application developers and operators to use it to triangulate geographic position.
The HINTON Locator provides access to information that can support location techniques such as TA and
CGI positioning, allowing application developers and operators to use it to triangulate geographic position. It
is capable of acting as an external, network-based LMU to capture data from the Abis interface, and for
intercepting information from the A-Interface.
The HINTON Locator from Telesoft Technologies provides a cost-effective, scalable platform that captures
essential location information for the creation of valuable LBS. It can be layered onto an existing network and
does not disrupt existing deployments. It offers future-proof technology, protecting existing investment and
building long-term ROI.
Telesoft Technologies has decades of experience in the field of network monitoring and mobile signalling.
Through the HINTON Locator, this expertise is available to assist the rapid deployment of LBS applications
and support monetisation of key network assets in new and innovative ways.

White Paper - Enabling location-based services through passive monitoring techniques

3

Introduction
The geographical location of mobile subscribers has become an important topic with profound implications
for a wide range of applications, known generically as “location-based services” (LBS). Alongside the
commercial opportunity for LBS applications, legal and social obligations – such as lawful interception and
intelligence-related data acquisition, and public Emergency E911/E112 services – also depend on the
acquisition of subscribers’ geographical location information. These services can be extremely valuable, both
for gathering intelligence and for the support of value added services (VAS). Moreover, the potential for such
services has only recently started to be exploited, and the value associated with these is likely to increase
significantly in the coming years.
In order to support LBS, the position of mobile devices must be determined accurately and consistently. As
such, the mobile network must be equipped with resources that can determine the location of a mobile
device in real time and present this data to applications that can process and act upon the information. This
requires interaction with many of the elements of a GSM network and related technologies. There are two
broad families of mobile network, governed by the 3GPP and 3GPP2 standards organisations. The 3GPP
family is the dominant technology and includes standards such as GSM, GPRS, EDGE and UMTS and, in
the future, LTE. 3GPP2 has adopted a broadly similar network architecture, but utilises a different radio
access standard, based on CDMA and CDMA-2000 technology. Positioning information can be harvested
from each of the main mobile technologies, although this paper will largely focus on the 3GPP family of GSM
and its derivatives.
Positioning in mobile networks is a function of the location of the handset or terminal utilised by a subscriber,
and the signalling that is used to measure signal strength and manage handover between cells conveys
much of the information required to determine device location. Although information that can help determine
location may be available, networks were not designed to automatically produce such information either to a
high degree of accuracy, or in a format appropriate for LBS application support. It is possible to discover the
parameters in mobile network signalling using passive monitoring probe solutions and, using sophisticated
algorithms, determine the location of the terminal – and hence of the subscriber. In order to improve
accuracy, it is essential to provide such location information to the highest degree of resolution. To achieve
this, probes need to be deployed at the edge of the network, as close as possible to the radio access
network (RAN) interface used by mobile terminals for communication. There is also a trade-off between the
most accurate rendering of such data and the cost of deploying such systems as overlays into a mobile
network. This paper discusses the techniques that can be cost-effectively leveraged to provide accurate
location-based information, and proposes a solution that can be easily deployed by operators seeking to
access location data, the HINTON Locator Probe.
Mobile Location Services – an Opportunity
Although the 3GPP standards body has avoided specification of specific services, they have provided a
1
useful classification of categories of services that can be implemented by LCS Clients . These include:
•
•
•
•

Commercial LCS, or value added services (VAS);
Internal LCS;
Emergency LCS; and
Lawful intercept LCS.

Commercial location services are typically revenue-generating services that offer value to a mobile
subscriber based on their location. They are generally based around a “push” model, in which selected data
is presented to mobile subscribers. This might be related to proximity to restaurants, for example, or special
offers in local stores. Such services have implications for privacy, and additional policies and permissions
have to be deployed in appropriate platforms in order to control access to services. These platforms are
beyond the scope of the current paper.
Internal location services are primarily concerned with operations internal to the network, such as handover,
although they may be concerned with reporting activities, such as traffic monitoring and capacity
measurement.
Emergency location services are a vital element in the provision of emergency services to subscribers and
are covered by legislation such as E.911 from the United States and E.112 from the European Union. These
White Paper - Enabling location-based services through passive monitoring techniques

4

acts make provision for specific levels of accuracy in determining both horizontal and vertical position of
mobile subscribers in order to assist in the provision of emergency assistance.
Lawful intercept location services form a specific category concerned with legally or officially sanctioned
collection of data for use by law enforcement agencies and have become a vital element in the fight against
crime and terrorism. Targets may be tracked individually or collectively via location tracking techniques.
Much of the growth in LBS has been associated with deployments to support emergency and lawful intercept
applications. However, analysts have long predicted dramatic growth in the commercial sector. Commercial
Mobile Location Services have been the poster child of value-added services enabled exclusively by mobile
networks for some years. Despite optimistic forecasts from a number of analysts, the predicted market has
not yet materialised. Nevertheless, there are increased grounds for optimism that the time for commercial
LBS may finally have arrived.
Location based services
categories
Public Safety Services
Location-Sensitive Charging
Tracking Services

Traffic Monitoring
Enhanced Call Routing
Location-Based
Information Services

Entertainment and Community Services

Standardized Service Types
Emergency Services
Emergency Alert Services
Person Tracking
Fleet Management.
Asset Management
Traffic Congestion Reporting
Roadside Assistance
Routing to Nearest Commercial Enterprise
Traffic and Public Transportation
Information
City Sightseeing
Localized Advertising
Mobile Yellow Pages
Weather
Asset and Service Finding
Gaming
Find Your Friend
Dating
Chatting
Route Finding
Where-am-I?

Service Provider Specific Services

Table 1: 3GPP Location Service Types
Increased penetration of advertising-funded mobile business models has led to greater acceptance of push
or opt-in, services. Users are now more accustomed to being presented with data regarding potential
services, providing that their privacy is protected. This stems both from new business models (such as that
pursued by Blyk), as well as the now-ubiquitous Google advertisements. Subscribers are accustomed to
seeing data presented according to their search preferences. This behaviour can be replicated in the mobile
world, using familiar techniques such as SMS or via suitable mobile browsing portals. As a result, analyst
2
firm ABI Research is predicting growth in commercial LBS from $111 million in 2008 to $2.2 billion by 2013 .
This represents significant growth potential, as deployment moves from support of emergency infrastructure
to commercial applications. Growth may be further stimulated by the emergence of passive positioning
techniques that will reduce the cost of network deployments. Telesoft Technologies is at the forefront of
initiatives in this marketplace.
There are many possibilities for commercial location services. These can be targeted towards individuals,
offering specific goods, services and information, or towards groups and industry, providing telematic and
tracking applications based on the movement of mobile devices. 3GPP has defined a range of generic
3
service types , which are highlighted in Table 1.

White Paper - Enabling location-based services through passive monitoring techniques

5

Mobility Management, Cell Allocation and Control in GSM Mobile Networks
Mobile Network Architecture
Mobile networks can be divided into four basic domains, as illustrated in Figure 1, below:
•
•
•
•

The mobile station (MS);
The base station subsystem (BSS);
The network and switching subsystem (NSS); and
The operation and support subsystem (OSS).

Figure 1: GSM Mobile Network Architecture
In all mobile specifications, the interface between two defined entities is given a label to assist
standardisation efforts. Thus, although there are many such interfaces defined, there are three that can
be leveraged to provide mobile location information:
•
•
•

Interface between the mobile station and the BSS – the Um interface;
Interface between the entities of the BSS – the Abis interface;
Interface between the BSS and NSS – the A-interface.

A more complete explanation of basic mobile network architecture is provided in Appendix 1.

White Paper - Enabling location-based services through passive monitoring techniques

6

Mobility Management
Within the BSS domain, the base transceiver station (BTS) continuously transmits control information
across what is known as a broadcast control channel (BCCH). When a mobile handset, or mobile station,
is powered on, it will begin to scan all of the 125 available GSM-900 frequencies in search of a frequency
correction burst signal. Once the BCCH frequency has been found and the frequency has been adjusted,
the mobile station will "stay tuned" and listen for a further synchronization burst. This must be decoded in
order to synchronize (in terms of clock signal) to the network. After successfully synchronizing frequency
and time, the BCCH signal can be received and decoded, providing network identification and information
about how the mobile should behave on the network. The BCCH never changes frequency – it stays in
the same frequency constantly, like a beacon, transmitting information to the mobiles in a given cell.
When the mobile station has found the strongest BCCH signal, it verifies this and, if permitted, “camps
on” to the cell. It then obtains a BCCH allocation list (BA) of other BCCH signals in the area, and uses this
to check the signal strength of the surrounding cells.
GSM mobile stations have two key background tasks:
•
•

Continuously monitoring beacon power levels of neighbouring cell sites; and
Maintaining a record of the six strongest neighbouring cells.

In “idle” mode, the action of continuously measuring the signal strength (or receive level) of the BCCH of
neighbouring cells helps the mobile station to select the best serving cell. This scanning also aids cell
handover procedures when a mobile station is active. The mobile station is said to be active when it is
performing one of the following tasks:
•
•
•
•

Location update;
Receiving a call (mobile termination, or MT);
Initiating a call (mobile origination, or MO); and
Allocating a data channel (for packet-switched data or SMS).

The active measurement of neighbouring cell BCCH signal strength exists primarily for the network to
manage handovers between cells, allowing the mobile station to transfer to a different BCCH at a higher
signal level if the original diminishes. This underpins the whole concept of mobility – the ability of a mobile
station to seamlessly maintain connectivity to the network. However, as a side effect, the reports contain
valuable data on the radio frequencies and signal levels currently being measured by the mobile station.
The data collected can be used for other applications, in addition to the control of handovers. These
applications include:
•
•
•

Cell RF planning;
Monitoring quality of service (QoS) of the radio interface; and
Determining MS position.

The role of the Base Station Subsystem
The BSS has a critical role to play in the mobile network. It also provides a key entry point for obtaining
information that can be used to support LBS. There are several elements that are required to assist in
positioning of mobile stations and which are produced as part of the standard activity of mobility
management. As such, they require no invasive techniques for capture, but need to be collected by
appropriate equipment.
On the network side of a transmitter (TRX) within the BSS, each cell is given a cell identity (CI). The
location area code (LAI) is added to this by the BSC to create a unique cell global identity (CGI) code
which can be seen at the A interface. Each TRX within the BSS will also have a unique terminal
equipment number (TEI) that is used to communicate between the BSC and the TRX across the Abis
interface.

White Paper - Enabling location-based services through passive monitoring techniques

7

Within each base-station there may be several base transceiver stations (BTS), each with one to sixteen
transmitters (TRX). The air side of a transmitter (TRX) is identified by two unique data tags:
•
•

Base station identity code (BSIC); and
Absolute radio frequency channel number (ARFCN).

The BSIC allows mobile stations to discriminate between different cells transmitting their broadcast
control channels (BCCHs) on the same frequency. The BSIC comprises two values: a network colour
code (NCC); and a base station colour code (BCC). The combination of BCCH frequency and BSIC is
used in GSM cellular radio systems to identify a cell for purposes such as handover. BCCH frequency
and BSIC is normally unique within a local geographic area, but not necessarily unique within a network.
The mobile station is told of the BCCH frequencies of nearby cells via a BCCH allocation (BA) list. This
saves hunting nearby cells for the information and allows it measure their signal strength (RXLEVEL)
relative to the serving cell (see section 4.5). The BA list is sent out on the broadcast channel of each cell
and is received by mobile stations in idle mode. It is also sent to each mobile station that is in active mode
on a slow associated control channel (or SACCH) associated with the active traffic or data channel.
GSM Location Techniques
Positional Accuracy
There are a variety of techniques that can be used to provide information to support LBS. Each has
different levels of accuracy, but there is also a cost associated with each. Positioning information can be
characterised with varying degrees of accuracy to support a range of specific services. 3GPP has defined
parameters that indicate the kinds of services that can be supported for a particular level of location
3
resolution . This is illustrated in Table 2.
Level of Accuracy

Potential Applications

Location-independent
PLMN or country
Regional (up to 200km)
District (up to 20km)
Up to 1 km
500m to 1km

Most existing cellular services, stock prices, sports reports
Services that are restricted to one country or one PLMN
Weather reports, localized weather warnings, traffic information
Local news, traffic reports
Vehicle asset management, targeted congestion avoidance advice
Rural and suburban emergency services, manpower planning, information
services (Where can I find …?)
US FCC mandate (99-245) for wireless emergency calls using network-based
positioning methods
Urban SOS, localized advertising, home zone pricing, network maintenance,
network demand monitoring, asset tracking, information services (Where is the
nearest …?)
US FCC mandate (99-245) for wireless emergency calls using handset-based
positioning methods
Asset location, route guidance, navigation

100m (67%)
300m (95%)
75m-125m
50m (67%)
150m (95%)
10m-50m

Table 2: 3GPP Guidelines for Location-Based Services
The most accurate methods, capable of providing resolution at a granularity of <100m require significant
4
investment, as noted by Liutkauskas et al as they require measurements to be captured at the mobile
station and directly across the radio interface. Moreover, the greatest resolution is only available through
global positioning system (GPS) technology, which is not yet widely deployed in mobile stations.
However, there are other techniques which, when combined, can generate resolution within a range of
100 – 500m, which is sufficient for a wide range of potential applications, including emergency service
access under US E911 laws. Collectively, techniques which depend on data available over wired or
physical connections are known as “network based”, in contrast to those that are made via direct
interaction with the radio interfaces. Network-based techniques are not only much simpler and more cost
effective to deploy, they also depend on information that is intrinsic to the mobile network.

White Paper - Enabling location-based services through passive monitoring techniques

8

The three primary network based measurement techniques are:
•
•
•

Cell global identity;
Handover / location area update; and
Timing advance / RXLEV

For each technique, there are key variables that have to be obtained. Several interfaces provide
measurement data for network-based location measurement within the GSM family of networks. The role
5
of each is discussed in the following sections and is summarised in Table 3 .
Measurement
Technique

Mobile Station

Interface
Surveyed

Positioning Method

Location Area Update
Handover
Cell Global ID
TA-value
RXLEV-values

Passive
Active
Active
Active
Active

A / Abis
A / Abis
A
Abis
Abis

Location area update
Handover area
Cell global identity
Arc section
Arc section

Table 3: Mobile Location Techniques
Cell Global Identity Positioning
Cell Global Identity (CGI) may also be referred to as Cell of Origin (COO) approximation and uses the cell
value in which the mobile station is registered by identifying the cell identity (Cell ID) of the serving cell,
from which the BTS concerned can be found. Once the cell identity is known, the mobile station can be
5
located to a given cell . It depends on the principle that each BTS has a fixed position and known
properties such as signal strength. An area around the BTS can be calculated in which the handset can
be located to receive signals of a given strength from the cell. This principle is illustrated in Figure 2.

Figure 2: CGI / COO Positioning
Cell Global Identity positioning has varying degrees of accuracy, as the area calculated around the BTS is
based on transmitted signal strength and the known signal attenuation (signal loss). These values allow
calculation of the radius around the BTS. The final accuracy depends upon the network cell size, which
can vary from a radius of 150m in an urban area up to 35km in a rural area. Given this variation, the
method has relatively limited utility and is often used in combination with other methods. Nonetheless, it is
a useful initial step to providing location-based information and can support a variety of applications.
The BTS often have Antennas that divide the 360 degrees into (usually 2, 3 or 4) segments. As a result
the base station can limit the location of a mobile station to a smaller angular segment (180, 120 or 90
6
degrees) as illustrated in Figure 3 . The cell identity value is contained in Location Update signalling that
passes across the A-interface towards the NSS.

White Paper - Enabling location-based services through passive monitoring techniques

9

Figure 3: CGI and Sectoring
Location Area / Handover Update Positioning
A location area is a group of base stations. When a mobile station is switched on it determines it’s
location area and passes that information to the network so the network knows where to find it if a call is
received. Whenever its location area changes the mobile station will update the network with its new
location area. At the point of handover a ‘handover event’ takes place where two cell identities are
available and the boundary of the two cells concerned can be determined. Although this can provide
additional location information, it has the disadvantage of being a transitory event. The handover method
6
is illustrated in Figure 4 . Handover and Location Area Update messages are presented across both the
Abis and A-interfaces towards the NSS.

Figure 4: Positioning During Handover
Timing Advance Positioning
Timing advance (TA) values provide a measure of the distance of the mobile station from the serving cell.
TA is a technique used to synchronise the signals between the mobile station and the BTS by ensuring
that all bursts transmitted from the mobile station arrive at the BTS at the expected time. As distance
between the two increases, the burst is sent earlier. The TA value indicates the time advance for the
5
mobile station to send one signal burst and is limited to a resolution of approximately 550m[ ]. Each 550m
distance can be described as a TA step and the BSS assigns a TA value to a mobile station, based on
calculated distance. A TA value of ‘0’ thus implies that the mobile station is between 0 and 550m from the
BTS, and a value of ‘2’ suggests that it is between 1100 and 1650m from the BTS. Given the maximum
radius of a BTS site of 35Km, each cell can be divided into 64 TA steps, as shown in table 4:
Timing Advance
Distance To BTS

0
<550m

1
550-1100m

2
1100-1650m

3
1650-2200m

….

63
35Km

Table 4: Correlation of Timing Advance Number to Distance of BTS from MS
Determination of the TA is a normally a function of the base station controller (BSC), but this function can
be handled anywhere in the BSS, depending on the manufacturer.

White Paper - Enabling location-based services through passive monitoring techniques

10

Signal Strength Positioning
RXLEV, or Reception Level, is an indication of the signal strength at the mobile station. The mobile
station is able to measure RXLEV values for both the serving BTS and up to six neighbouring sites.
These are transmitted to the BSS domain during communication by the mobile station. The signal
strength is resolved to within 1dBm as shown in table 5 below:
RXLEVEL

0

1

2

3

Distance To BTS

-110dBm

-109dBm

-108dBm

-107dBm

….

60
-48dBm

Table 5: Correlation of RXLEVEL Number to Signal Strength
By converting the RXLEV value into a measure of distance, calculation of the position of the mobile
station can be made relative to each of the BTS sites involved. This provides information on the
segment, or arc section, within the coverage circle around the BTS in which the mobile station is likely to
be located. Combining measurement of several (up to 6) RXLEV values from different transmitters allows
triangulation of the mobile station. This is a complex calculation because attenuation within a signal area
may not be uniform due to obstructions.
TA and RXLEV positioning methods are complementary, allowing the resolution of location to within
150m under optimum conditions. The principle is illustrated in Figure 5 (below). Both RXLEV and Timing
Advance information are only presented across the Abis interface between the BTS and base station
controller (BSC).

Figure 5: Combining TA and RXLEVEL positioning
Location Measurement Infrastructure
Mobile networks inherently produce mobile location information. However, that data needs to be presented
to equipment where it can be processed and accessed by applications; it is not necessarily extracted by
default. Location applications can be provided within a mobile network, but they can also be external to that
network and operated by a third party. In this context, a differentiation can be made between Location
1
Servers and Location Clients .
A location server (LCS) is responsible for collecting location information. Each LCS Server responds to
requests from external clients to obtain and present location information to one or more Location Clients.
There may be many components to the LCS. Location clients (LCS Clients) are comprised of any hardware
or software equipment that initiates requests and interacts with a LCS for the purposes of obtaining location
information for one or more mobile stations.

White Paper - Enabling location-based services through passive monitoring techniques

11

Positioning information is obtained from the access network (the RAN) and exchanged with the core network
(the NSS). That is, the interfaces between the domains (Abis, A-interface). Therefore, the information can be
collected by components that are integrated within the BSS domain, or they may be obtained via additional
equipment that can be added to the network. In many cases, a device known as a location measurement unit
(LMU) captures the required data. This can be a standalone entity, or integrated into the BTS. A standalone
version can capture data from the Abis interface and present it to a second entity, the serving mobile location
centre (SMLC). The SMLC exists to format and present location information to LCS clients, but it may also
7
be associated with cell broadcast capabilities (CBC), which can be of assistance in emergency sessions .
This architecture is illustrated in Figure 6.

Figure 6: LCS Architecture
The SMLC may have responsibility for multiple LMU devices and presents the collated information to an
additional device, the gateway mobile location centre (GMLC). This is the point of entry to the network for
external LCS client applications and thus it is vital that accurate and timely information can be provided to
1
this in response to requests from the LCS client . It is further possible to provide data collected from the A1
interface to the GMLC. This architecture is illustrated in Figure 7 .

Figure 7: Overall LCS Architecture
The components of the LCS system can be deployed as an overlay to an existing mobile network, adding
capabilities to support additional services as required. A common LMU architecture can support multiple LCS
White Paper - Enabling location-based services through passive monitoring techniques

12

clients via the combination of the SMLC and GMLC. Although client software can be provided for mobile
stations yielding increased levels of accuracy, this can be a costly and inefficient method of obtaining
information, even though it may deliver the most accurate data. A compromise can be achieved by adding
passive equipment to potential access points that already exist within the BSS and NSS domains. This is
what an external LMU solution can deliver, particularly when combined with sophisticated passive monitoring
techniques to ensure non-disruptive deployment.
HINTON Location Techniques
Although data to support LBS is available within the network, it needs to be extracted from the appropriate
interface, formatted and presented via SMLC platforms to the LCS client. In the absence of widespread
deployment of mobile stations with embedded GPS or other active radio telemetry technology, passive probe
solutions provide the finest granularity of positioning available from the network to obtain detailed location
data.
The Telesoft Technologies’ HINTON Locator passively monitors the interfaces of the BSS and NSS domains
in mobile networks using high-impedance termination. This provides access to location-related signalling
information for processing by SMLC and GMLC platforms, and LCS clients, and is illustrated in Figure 8. The
HINTON Locator may be connected to any mobile network, such as GSM, GPRS, EDGE, UMTS or CDMA,
CDMA2000, and their derivatives, ensuring that the platform is future-proof as network migration proceeds,
offering vital investment protection. The HINTON Locator leverages functionality inherent in the mobile
network to capture location-related signalling information, allowing application developers and operators to
use it to triangulate geographic position.
The HINTON Locator extracts relevant information from signalling parameters and presents the received
data via an Ethernet API to middleware or applications for further processing. The data is aggregated and
forwarded to third-party applications. Aggregation may be done locally at each monitoring site or centrally as
network topology dictates. The HINTON Locator supports a wide range of physical interfaces (E1, T1, STM1,
OC-3, Ethernet) as well as a comprehensive range of signalling protocols (including those used across the
Abis and A-interfaces). It can also collect voice traffic from the A-interface directly, allowing for further
creativity in application development, as well as supporting legally-enforced Lawful Intercept programmes.

Figure 8: HINTON Locator System Architecture
This methodology allows sophisticated mobile subscriber applications to be developed, based on targeting
geographic areas, using network information only. The vast majority of handsets, both in circulation and sold
today, are still low specification non-GPS phones. Using network information avoids the need for any
specialised handset capabilities and allows LBS to be offered to all subscribers, even those with the most
basic handsets. Network location accuracy depends on many factors including density of base stations and
interference from tall buildings, but typical results from the HINTON Locator in an urban area derive location
data to an accuracy of 150-500m via triangulation of multiple BTS platforms from a handset. Monitoring data

White Paper - Enabling location-based services through passive monitoring techniques

13

using a separate overlay system avoids network interference and allows enhancement and upgrade
independent of the main network.
Conclusion
In order to cost-effectively deploy and leverage the potential of LBS, a lightweight, passive solution that is
capable of collecting location data from appropriate interfaces is required. The captured information can
support location techniques such as RXLEVEL, TA and CGI positioning. Such a device should be capable of
acting as an external, network-based LMU to capture data from the Abis interface, and for intercepting
information from the A-Interface. It should be able to interface seamlessly to the SS7 signalling conveyed
over both interfaces and present it to SMLC and other LCS entities in a format that can rapidly be processed
in response to location requests from an LCS client.
The HINTON Locator from Telesoft Technologies meets all of these requirements and provides a costeffective, scalable platform that captures essential location information for the creation of valuable LBS. It
can be layered onto an existing network and does not disrupt existing deployments. It offers future-proof
technology, protecting existing investment and building long-term ROI.
The HINTON Locator can also be used to ensure compliance with legal requirements and Lawful Intercept
regulations. At a time when the LBS market appears poised to – finally – deliver on its promise, the HINTON
Locator can become a key enabler to help network operators and LBS application developers realise its
potential.
Telesoft Technologies has decades of experience in the field of network monitoring and mobile signalling.
Through the HINTON Locator, this expertise is available to assist the rapid deployment of LBS applications
and support monetisation of key network assets in new and innovative ways. Please contact Telesoft
Technologies Ltd for more information and to discuss your network requirements.

White Paper - Enabling location-based services through passive monitoring techniques

14

References
1. 3GPP TS 23.271 V7.9.0 “3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services
and System Aspects; Functional stage 2 description of Location Services (LCS) (Release 7)”
2. ABI Research (2008) “Location Based Platforms and Infrastructure”
3. 3GPP TS 22.071 V8.0.0 “3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group Services
and System Aspects; Location Services (LCS); Service description; Stage 1 (Release 8)”
4. Liutkauskas, V, Matulis, Pl štys, Kaunas University of Technology, “Location Based Services”
5. Schwieger, V. “Positioning within the GSM Network” in “Coastal Areas and Land Administration –
th
Building the Capacity, 6 FIG Regional Conference, San José, Costa Rica 12 – 15 November 2007
6. Czommer, R, Ramm, K, Schwiege, V, (2006) “Analyse de Ortungsverfahren”. Report within the project
Do-iT, Working Practice 4.1, Institute for Applications of Geodesy to Engineering, University Stuttgart
7. 3GPP TS 43.059 V8.1.0 “3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical Specification Group GSM/EDGE
Radio Access Network; Functional stage 2 description of Location Services (LCS) in GERAN (Release
8)”

White Paper - Enabling location-based services through passive monitoring techniques

15

Glossary
Abis: Signalling between BTS and BSC in GSM mobile networks
A-Interface: Signalling between BSC and MSC in GSM mobile networks
ARFCN: Absolute radio frequency channel number
BCC: Base station colour code
BCCH: Broadcast control channel
BSC: Base station controller
BSIC: Base station identity code
BSS: Base station subsystem
BTS: Base Transceiver Station
CDMA: Code division multiple access
Class 5: Central office switch in fixed networks, directly serving subscribers
COO: Cell of origin
E1: E carrier level one, 2.048 Mbit/s full duplex
EDGE: Enhanced data rates for GSM evolution
EIR: Equipment identity register
GLMC: Gateway mobile location centre
GERAN: GSM edge radio access network
GPRS: General packet radio service
GPS: Global positioning system
GSM (X00): Global system for mobile communications or groupe spéciale mobile, where X00 refers to the
frequency band used
HLR: Home location register
LBS: Location based services
LCS: Location services
LTE: Long term evolution
MO: Mobile originated
MS: Mobile station
MSC: Mobile switching centre
MT: Mobile terminated
NCC: Network colour code
NSS: Network and switching subsystem
OSS: Operation and support subsystem
QoS: Quality of service
RAN: Radio access network
RF: Radio frequency
RXLEV: Reception level
SACCH: Slow associated control channel
SMLC: Serving mobile location centre
SMS: Short message service
SS7: Signalling system number 7
TA: Timing advance
TEI: Terminal Equipment Identifier
UMTS: Universal mobile telecommunications system
UTRAN: UMTS terrestrial radio access network
VAS: Value added services
VLR: Visitor location register

White Paper - Enabling location-based services through passive monitoring techniques

16

Appendix A: Mobile Network Architecture
Architectural Basics
In order to access location information, an understanding of the topology of mobile networks is required.
In this section, an overview of mobile network architecture is provided. Mobile networks can be divided
into four basic domains, based on the GSM implementation, as illustrated in Figure 9 (below).
•
•
•
•

The mobile station (MS);
The base station subsystem (BSS);
The network and switching subsystem (NSS); and
The operation and support subsystem (OSS).

Figure 9: GSM Mobile Network Architecture
A mobile station is the term applied to the combination of the mobile equipment that is deployed together
with the subscriber identity module (or SIM) card. The SIM card stores valuable subscriber information,
allowing subscribers to easily change handset or access devices. The term mobile station is used
because there is a range of devices in which the SIM card can be transported. These are usually mobile
handsets, but can also include computers, dongle devices for mobile broadband access, and positioning
equipment. This latter category is important for many commercial telemetry applications, such as fleet
mobility.
The mobile station communicates via a radio interface to the BSS domain. This is often called the radio
access network (RAN), and has evolved in conjunction with the release of new mobile standards. More
recent versions include GERAN and UTRAN (GPRS edge radio access network and UMTS radio access
network, respectively). However, the basic principles are the same and, for the purposes of this paper,
White Paper - Enabling location-based services through passive monitoring techniques

17

the term RAN will be generically adopted. In all mobile specifications, the interface between two defined
entities is given a label to assist standardisation efforts. Thus, although there are many such interfaces
defined, there are three that can be leveraged to provide mobile location information:
•
•
•

Interface between the mobile station and the BSS – the Um interface;
Interface between the entities of the BSS – the Abis interface;
Interface between the BSS and NSS – the A-interface.

The Um Interface
Um is a radio signalling interface that is responsible for the control of mobile stations. It is the
responsibility of the base transceiver station (BTS) within the BSS domain to manage bi-directional
communications with all active and inactive (but powered on) mobile stations within a cell area. The RAN
is divided into cells, each of which contains a BTS – often known as a cell tower. A cell comprises the
area around a BTS for which coverage may be provided. For simplicity, this is usually described as being
circular, although the local topography influences the effective coverage. Using the concept of a circle, it
can be seen that a mobile station will always be located at a given radius from the BTS, which gives rise
to various location detection possibilities.
º

In order to provide 360 coverage within a given cell area, a BTS may deploy one or more transceiver
devices (TRX). Each TRX device is allocated a sector within a particular cell and is given a cell Identity
(CI), base station identity code (BSIC), absolute radio frequency channel number (ARFCN) and terminal
equipment identity value (TEI) value. Where three such TRX devices are deployed, each has an effective
º
arc of 120 . This is illustrated in Figure 10, below.

Figure 10: TRX and BTS Relationship
The Abis Interface
The BSS domain is divided into two entities, the base station controller (BSC) and the BTS. An individual
BSC may control many hundreds of BTS platforms. The two are linked by a physical connection, which is
usually based on E1 interfaces. A dedicated signalling protocol is conveyed over this interface, the Abis,
which manages cellular traffic from within each cell site. Voice and data communications may be carried
across this interface. The Abis interface is the nearest signalling interface to the radio access network.
That is, it contains specialised information regarding the location and mobility of mobile stations that can
be a valuable input to the creation of LBS. This information includes data on the signal strength of the
mobile station (RXLEVEL) and the timing advance (TA). Both types of data can be used to calculate
distance of the mobile station to the relevant BTS and are discussed at greater length in sections 4.4 and
4.5. GPRS packet data can also contain location information and is also carried over the Abis interface.
The A-Interface
Each base station controller is connected to the mobile switching centre (MSC) in the NSS via the Ainterface. There may be multiple MSCs within a mobile network and they act in a similar way to a class 4
switch in a fixed network. The A-interface is a signalling connection, based on SS7, which manages voice
traffic from the cellular access network. It is normally transported over E1 interfaces. In later revisions to
the standards, a data overlay was implemented that effectively separated voice and data traffic at the
White Paper - Enabling location-based services through passive monitoring techniques

18

BSC level (i.e. GRPS). The A-interface includes details of location update and handover information that
must be presented to the NSS in order to update the key databases that are located within the core (for
example, the HLR, VLR and EIR). As such, it provides additional information that can be used for the
creation and support of LBS.

White Paper - Enabling location-based services through passive monitoring techniques

19

Appendix B: Mobile Network Codes
Mobile Network Codes
A reference of various network codes:
ARFCN: absolute radio frequency channel number - the GSM900 spectrum uses ARFCN 1 to 124.
BCC: base station colour code – part of the BSIC – to discriminate between cells using the same frequencies
during the cell selection and camping on process.
BSIC: base station identity code - a code broadcast in order to identify the NCC (Network Colour Code –
3bits) and the BCC (Base Station Colour Code – 3bits).
CGI: cell global identity - the concatenation of the LAI (Location Area Identity) and the CI (Cell Identity) and
uniquely identifies a given cell.
CI: cell identity - a 16bit identifier. When combined with the LAI (Location Area Identity) or RAI (Routing Area
Identity) the result is termed the CGI (Cell Global Identity).
LA: location area - is a group of cells (defined by the network provider) in which a mobile will be paged.
LAI: location area identity - comprised of the MCC (Mobile Country Code), MNC (Mobile Network Code) and
the LAC (Location Area Code).
LAC: location area code - uniquely identifies a LA (Location Area) within a PLMN (Public Land Mobile
Network). It may range from 0 to 65,535.
MCC: mobile country code - a three digit number uniquely identifying a given country.
MNC - Mobile Network Code - a two or three digit number used to uniquely identify a given network
from within a specified country.
NCC: network colour code – part of the BSIC - 3bits, to differentiate between operators
RAI: routing area identification - composed of the LAC (Location Area Code) and the RAC (Routing Area
Code). It is used for paging and registration purposes.

Telesoft Technologies Ltd,
Observatory House,
Blandford, Dorset DT 11 9LQ UK

Telesoft Technologies Inc.
Suite 601, 4340 Georgetown Square,
Atlanta GA 30338 USA

Telesoft Technologies Ltd,
Building FC-24, Sector 16A, Noida 201301,
Uttar Pradesh, India

T. +44 (0)1258 480 880
F. +44 (0)1258 486 598
E. sales@telesoft-technologies.com

T. +1 770 454 6001
F. +1 770 452 0130
E. salesusa@telesoft-technologies.com

T. +91 120 466 0300
F. +91 120 466 0301
E. salesindia@telesoft-technologies.com

DX-HIN-GEN-MK-WP-32640-02

20

