Wireless technology has revolutionized electronic communication -

creating

a level of convenience and connectivity never seen before . Unfortunately, this
revolution also has a dark side, as terrorists and criminals have used wireless
technology to coordinate activities or detonate improvised explosive devices
The capabilities of TruePosition LOCINT:
• Historical archiving of all mobi le phone
location information and ca lling activity
for an extended period
• Data mining, profiling, and analysis of
location information and ca lling activities,
via a user-friend ly, map-based, graphical
interface, to gather intelligence on mobile
phone users based on criteria such as users'
movement and calling activity
• Automatic notifications based on preset
criteria, such as when specific mobiles
enter or leave an area or exhibit specific
communications patterns
• Track the location of multiple mobile
phones in rea l time with high accuracy
when used in conjunction with the
TruePosition Location Platform

(IEDs) . This has created serious new risks to the security of citizens worldwide .
Fortunately, there are now ways to counter these threats. By combining
sophisticated location determination and network data mining technologies,
TruePosition is giving government agencies, security experts, and law enforcement
offices a powerful, layered defense against crim inal and terrorist activity.
Only TruePosition has the proven mobile phone location infrastructure and
sophisticated data mining capabilities needed to offer a new class of carrier-grade
security solutions. Security solutions that capture and analyze a huge array of
mobile data, including current activities, mobile events, and interactions. Security
solutions that can identify and track any mobile phone or device in real time, in
any environment, and with high accuracy and reliability.
TruePosition security solutions can be applied as a multi-layered defense in areas
such as:
•Border Security: virtual electronic fences can be used to increase border patrol
efficiency, reduce illegal traffic, and support and enforce imm igration policies
•Critical Infrastructure Protection: detecting intrusion and augmenting
perimeter surveillance to reduce the risk associated with protecting key
infrastructure, such as water treatment plants or chemical and nuclear
facilit ies, and protect employees
•Law Enforcement: forensic intelligence to identify criminals and their
associates, and preempt criminal activities
TruePosition LOCI NT consists of the TruePosition® Location Intelligence
Management System'" (LIMS'") in conjunction with the TruePosition® Location
Platform'" (TPLP'"), which is a turnkey solution for tracking and analyzing the
location information and calling activities of mobile phone users.

Customers can then select a group of mobiles and determine
their precise locations utilizing the U-TDOA location technique and
continuously track the ir movements. Real-time tracking of all mobile
phones of interest is also used to alert operators when mobile phones
users' location data match certain predetermined conditions (presence
in a specific area, timeframe, etc.) .
TruePosition LOCINT offers high-performance location intelligence which can be used by law enforcement agencies, security officials, and
government agencies such as Customs and Border Patrol, Department
of Homeland Security, Ministries of the Interior, and Ministries of
Defense - to enable the following :
• = TruePosition Location Platform
• = TruePosition Location Intelligence Management System
• =Carrier
TruePosition LOCI NT is made up of the key components shown in the
figure above and is described in points one and two.
1. The TruePosition Location Platform is used to provide the real-time,
high-accuracy location of target mobile subscribers, and is comprised
of the following:

• Location Measurement Unit (LMU)
•Wireless Location Platform (WLP)
•Wireless Location Gateway (WLG)
•Link Monitoring System (LMS)
•Gateway Mobile Location Center (GMLC)

2. The TruePosition Location Intelligence Management System collects,
stores, and displays real-time and historical wireless events and the
location of target mobile users, and is comprised of the following:
•Siphon

•Historical archiving of all mobile phone location information and
calling activity for an extended period
•Data mining, profiling, and analysis of location information and
calling activities, via a user-friendly, map-based, graphical interface,
to gather intelligence on mobile phone users based on criteria such
as users' movement and calling activity
• Automatic notifications based on preset criteria, such as when
specific mobiles enter or leave an area or exhibit specific
communications patterns
•Track the location of multiple mobiles phones in real time with
high accuracy when used in conjunction with the TruePosition
Location Platform
Key Features of TruePosition LOCINT:
•Locates mobile phones of interest in real time with high
accuracy - including idle phones (mobile phones not making
a call or sending a message)
•Builds invisible electronic virtual fences of any size
called "geofences"
• Develops authorized and barred lists of mobile phones

•Database

•Archives location information for all phones in the network,
allowing security officials to search and analyze the archived
data for suspicious behavior patterns

• Interface to External Applications

•Transparent to the mobile user and network

•Application

TruePosition LOCINT is implemented as a passive overlay within a
wireless mobile network operator's existing communications network.
Using non-intrusive interfaces with the signaling links, the system
extracts location information for all mobile phones of the
monitored network.

•Scales from small to large networks
•Offers the flexibility to create multiple levels of access and control
•Supports multiple mobile network operators

Location information is processed for both real -time surveillance and
historical analysis. These locations allow customers to first query and
analyze historical data to select mobile phones of interest.

O 2011 TruePosition, Inc. All Rights Reserved. TruePosition, Inc. and the TruePosition logo are registered trademarks of TruePosition, Inc. Other marks containing TruePosition, such as the TruePosition Location Platform, are claimed as trademarks by TruePosition.

