TRUEPOSITION LOCINT®
Mobile phones have become the standard communication method across
the globe. Unfortunately, mobility has also made it easier for criminals and terrorists
to plan. coordinate and execute attacks on persons or property.
TruePosition wireless location and intelligence solutions include sophisticated
capabilities to counteract the modern crimina l. helping to protect lives and
enhance safety TruePosition solutions help
· Bolster national security
. Enhance public safety
. Suppress c rime and terrorism

TRUEPOSITION'S LOCATION INTELLIGENCE PLATFORM
At the core of TruePosition·s solutions
is the TruePosition• LOCINr mobile
location and intelligence platform.
The LOCINT platform enables law
enforcement. intelligence. public safety
or national defense agencies to protect
citizens and suppress crime through
two primary subsystems:
· The TruePosition ' Location
Platform· (TPLP) , which locates
mobile devices on GSM. UMTS,
CDMA and LTE networks
· The TruePosltion· Location
Intelligence Management System·
(LIMS), which provides analytical
and surveillance capabilities
Add-on systems and solutions
are integrated into the core solution
to provide additional functiona lity
as needed.

INDUSTRY-LEADING LOCATION CAPABILITIES
The TruePosition Location Platform (TPLP) locates mobile phones
and devices via a suite of location technologies that can be
deployed individually or in combination to provide the optimal
solution for the customer's needs and budget
Supported location methods include:
High accuracy - Uplink Time Difference of Arriva l (U-TDOA) or
Assisted Global Positioning System (A-GPS)
Medium accuracy - Enhanced Cell ID (ECID) or Enhanced Cell ID+
Low accuracy - Cell ID (CGI) or CGI plus Timing Advance (CGI+ TA)

TruePosition·s location system has been refined over more than
10 years of large-sca le deployments. No other system can claim
the footprint or volume of locations processed. Technological
advantages include:
Yield · Latency · Throughput · System uptime · Accuracy
Law Enforcement or Public Safety officials can use the system to:

· Locate distressed callers who cannot provide their location
· Find the current or last known location of missing persons
· Actively track known or suspected criminals
· Trace other criminal mobile activities such as threatening calls or
text messages

ADD -ON SOLUTIONS

· Intelligence Appl1cat1ons
· Off-Air Devices
· Tactical Systems
· Angle of Arrival (AOA) Sensors
· C41S
· Enhanced Mapping
· PSAP Software
· Location Information Server (LIS)

· Locate ransom calls made via mobile phone
DEPLOYMENT OPTIONS
NETWORK EMBEDDED

NETWORK INDEPENDENT

HYBRID

Components
installed into the
network of the
wireless o p e rator(s)

Stand -alone location
measurement and
network monitoring
components ut1l1zed

Comb1nat1on
of embedded
and independent
options

Cost and reach
advantages

Advantages 1n
security and mobility

ROBUST LOCATION INTELLIGENCE FEATURES
The LOCINT solution's intelligence capabilities are provided through
the TruePosition Location Intelligence Management System (LIMS)
The LIMS platform collects mobile network data and location
information. enables advanced analysis. tracks designated mobile
devices in real time. and issues alerts when security is threatened.
LIMS functionality includes:

INTELLIGENCE
· Collect and archive network activity and location information
· Analyze archived data through sophisticated data retrieval and
analysis techniques
· Build detailed profiles of targets' locations. movements. and
behaviors to determine patterns and relationships
SURVEILLANCE
· Track targets with high accuracy, in real time. in all conditions
· Collect and archive location data for all phones using mediumaccuracy location technology

BENEFITS

The TruePosition LOCINT platform is unique
in its ability to
· Locate all mobile devices. including
local subscribers and roamers. regardless
of the make, model, or vintage.
· Provide consistent performance over
time without extensive reca libration.
· Locate mobile devices anywhere
including rural. suburban, and urban
environments: indoors. underground
and in urban canyons
• Provide robust location intelligence
capabilities via an integrated platform
· Combine with existing systems or efforts
to form an effective layered national
defense or public safety strategy.

GEOFENCING
· Create virtual perimeters (geo-fences) to protect sensitive
areas such as borders. government buildings, energy facilities.
transportation hubs. event sites. and other critical infrastructure

ARCHIVE AND SEARCH BASED ON:

· Receive alerts when devices meeting certain c riteria
approach or cross a geo-fenc e

· Numb ers that called the target phone

Intelligence and Security authorities can use the system to:

· Analyze data from past criminal or terrorist events to construct
a suspect list

· Digits dialed by the target phone
· Any subscriber identity including IMSI.
IMEI, or MSISDN
· Mobiles in idle state

· Actively track and receive alerts on known criminals

· Previous locations of the target
phone

· Uncover criminal networks by linking mobile and location- related
ac tivities

· Surveillance over wide areas

· Determine locations frequented by criminals
· Determine routes of entry employed by illegal border crossers

· Proximity to known locations. events.
or persons

ABOUT TRUEPOSITION, THE LOCATION SPECIALISTS
TruePosition creates mobile geo-loc ation solutions to protect lives
and enhance safety TruePosition solutions combine location with
intelligence to
Bolster national security
Enhance public safety
Suppress crime and terrorism
Since 1992. TruePosition·s single focus has been designing and deploying
high-performance safety and security-related mobile location solutions.
TruePosition has gained unmatched real-world experience through our
nationwide public safety location technology footprint in the U S . and
our multiple international security deployments. TruePosition provides
a full complement of services to support our technology and solution
portfolio including design, deployment. integration and ongoing support
RELIABLE, ROBUST SOLUTIONS

TruePosition designs custom solutions for the specific needs and budget
of our customers. TruePosition solutions are:
RELIABLE - with redundant subsystems and expert support. system
uptime exceeds industry standards
SECURE - built with safeguards against external intrusion
COVERT - all sensitive information is contained within a central.

secured location
SCALABLE - able to support large or small deployments with varying
degrees of performance and autonomy
ROBUST - performance. features and capabilities exceed those of
competing solutions
MODULAR - integrates with law enforcement. intelligence. or public

safety systems
COMPREHENSIVE - with scalable location accuracy and an integrated

intelligence platform

TP SOLUTION

FEATURES
COLLECT

All mobile act1v1t1es
and location
1nformat1on
ANALYZE

Filter and extract data
based on multiple
date. network event.
or location-based
crrterra
TRACK

In real time
When phones are idle
Ano ymously.
without alerting
those being rac><ed
Issue alerts as
suspects a proach
or cross geo-fences

