THE LOCATION SPECIALISTS

www.trueposition.com

TRUEPOSITION LOCINT®
Mobile phones have become the standard communication method across
the globe. Unfortunately, mobility has also made it easier for criminals and terrorists
to plan, coordinate and execute attacks on persons or property.
TruePosition wireless location and intelligence solutions include sophisticated
capabilities to counteract the modern criminal, helping to protect lives and
enhance safety. TruePosition solutions help:
· Bolster national security
· Enhance public safety
· Suppress crime and terrorism

TRUEPOSITION'S LOCATION INTELLIGENCE PLATFORM
At the core of TruePosition's solutions
is the TruePosition" LOCINT' mobile
location and intelligence platform
The LOCINT platform enables law
enforcement. intelligence. public safety
or national defense agencies to protect
citizens and suppress crime through
two primary subsystems:
. The TruePosition · Location
Platform· (TPLP), which locates
mobile devices on GSM, UMTS,
CDMA and LTE networks
· The TruePosition ' Location
Intelligence Management System·
(LIMS), which provides analytical
and surveillance capabilities
Add-on systems and solutions
are integrated into the core solution
to provide additional functionality
as needed.

INDUSTRY- LEADING LOCATION CAPABILITIES
The TruePosition Location Platform (TPLP) locates mobile phones
and devices via a suite of location technologies that can be
deployed individually or in combination to provide the optimal
solution for the customer's needs and budget.
Supported location methods include:
High accuracy - Uplink Time Difference of Arrival (U-TDOA) o r
Assisted Global Positioning System (A-GPS)
Medium accuracy - Enhanced Cell ID (ECID) or Enhanced Cell ID+
Low accuracy - Cell ID (CGI) or CGI plus Timing Advance (CGI+ TA)

TruePosition·s location system has been refined over more than
10 years of large-scale deployments. No other system can claim
the footprint or volume of locations processed. Technological
advantages include:
Yield · Latency · Throughput · System uptime · Accuracy
Law Enforcement or Public Safety officials can use the system to:

· Locate distressed ca llers who cannot provide their location
· Find the current or last known location of missing persons
· Actively track known or suspected criminals
· Trace other criminal mobile activities such as threatening calls or
text messages

ADD - ON SOLUTIONS

· Intelligence Appl1cat1ons
· Off-Air Devices
· Tactical Systems
· Angle of Arrival (AOA) Sensors
· C41S
· Enhanced Mapping
· PSAP Software
· Location Information Server (LIS)

· Locate ransom ca ll s made via mobile phone
DEPLOYMENT OPTIONS
NETWORK EMBEDDED

NETWORK INDEPENDENT

HYBRID

Components
installed into the
network of the
wireless operator(s)

Stand-alone location
measurement and
network monitoring
components utilized

Comb1nat1on
o f embed ded
and independent
o p tions

Cost and reach
advantages

Advantages 1n
security and mobility

'
ROBUST LOCATION INTELLIGENCE FEATURES
The LOCINT solution's intelligence capabilities are provided through
the TruePosition Location Intelligence Management System (LIMS) .
The LIMS platform collects mobile network data and location
information, enables advanced analysis, tracks designated mobile
devices in real time, and issues alerts when security is threatened.
LIMS functionality includes:

INTELLIGENCE
· Collect and archive network activity and location information
· Analyze archived data through sophisticated data retrieval and
analysis techniques
· Build detailed profiles of targets' loc ations. movernents, and
behaviors to determine patterns and relationships
SURVEILLANCE
. Track targets with high accuracy, in real time, in all conditions
. Collect and archive location data for all phones using mediumaccuracy location technology

BENEFITS

The TruePosition LOCINT platform is unique
in its ability to
. Locate all mobile devices. including
local subscribers and roamers. regardless
of the make. model, or vintage.
· Provide consistent performance over
time without extensive recalibration.
· Locate mobile devices anywhere
including rural. suburban. and urban
environments; indoors. underground
and in urban canyons.
· Provide robust location intelligence
capabilities via an integrated platform.
· Combine with existing systems or efforts
to form an effective layered national
defense or public safety strategy.

GEOFENCING
· Create virtual perimeters (geo-fences) to protect sensitive
areas such as borders. government buildings, energy facilities.
transportation hubs. event sites. and other critical infrastructure

ARCHIVE AND SEARCH BASED ON:

· Receive alerts when devices meeting certain criteria
approach o r cross a geo-fence

· Numbers that called the target phone

Intelligence and Security authorities can use the system to:

· Analyze data from past c riminal or terrorist events to construct
a suspect list

· Digits dialed by the target phone
· Any subscriber identity including IMSI.
IMEI, o r MSISDN
· Mo biles in id le state

. Actively track and receive alerts on known criminals

· Previous locations o f the target
phone

· Uncover criminal networks by linking mobile and location-related
activities

· Surveillance over wide areas

. Determine locations frequented by c riminals
· Determine routes of entry employed by illegal border crossers

· Proximity to known locations. events .
o r persons

ABOUT TRUEPOSITION, THE LOCATION SPECIALISTS
TruePosition creates mobile geo-location solutions to protect lives
and enhance safety. TruePosition solutions combine location with
intelligence to
Bolster national security
Enhance public safety
Suppress crime and terrorism
Since 1992. TruePosition's single focus has been designing and deploying
high-performance safety and security-related mobile location solutions.
TruePosition has gained unmatched real-world experience through our
nationwide public safety location technology footprint in the U S . and
our multiple international security deployments. TruePosition provides
a full complement of services to support our technology and solution
portfolio including design, deployment. integration and ongoing support
RELIABLE, ROBUST SOLUTIONS

TruePosition designs custom solutions for the specific needs and budget
of our customers. TruePosition solutions are:
RELIABLE - with redundant subsystems and expert support. system

uptime exceeds industry standards
SECURE - built with safeguards against external intrusion
COVERT - all sensitive information is contained within a central.

secured location
SCALABLE - able to support large or small deployments with varying
degrees of performance and autonomy
ROBUST - performance. features and capabilities exceed those of

competing solutions
MODULAR - integrates with law enforcement. intelligence. or public
safety systems
COMPREHENSIVE - with scalable location accuracy and an integrated

intelligence platform

T P SOLUTION
FEATURES
COLLECT

All mobile act1v1t1es
and location
1nformat1on
ANALYZE

Filter and extract data
based o mul 1ple
d te. ne work event.
or location-based
criteria
TRACK

In real time
When phones are idle
Anonymously,
without alerting
those e1ng tracked
Issue alerts s
suspects approach
or cross geo -fences

THE LOC ATIO N SPEC IALI STS

National borders must be protected from criminal or terrorist threats. as
well as unlawful activities such as illegal immigration or drug trafficking.
Securing national borders can be a challenge due to topography,
size. or logistics Adding a wireless phone location, surveillance
and analysis system to traditional methods such as guards. patrols.
cameras or sensors can form an effective. multi-layered system.
TP SOLUTION

ENHANCING
BORDER
SECURITY

TruePosition designs and deploys mobile location and intelligence
solutions to discover. deter and apprehend border security threats
by diagnosing, locating and tracking mobile devices that behave
suspiciously near national borders. The solution enables authorities to:
Collect mobile phone and location data in accordance
with local laws
Analyze the data to identify suspects
Track suspects' movements and mobile activities
Take action when appropriate

THE TRUEPOSITION LOCINT PLATFORM IS UNIQUE IN ITS ABILITY TO:

• Locate all mobile devices. including local subscribers and roamers. regardless of
make. model. or vintage.
• Provide consistent performance over time without extensive recalibration.
• Locate mobile devices anywhere including rural. suburban. and urban environments:
indoors. underground and in urban canyons.
• Provide robust location intelligence capabilities. enabling authorities to collect mass amounts of
data and pinpoint potential suspects using advanced analysis and surveillance techniques.

ABOUT TRUEPOSITION, THE LOCATION SPECIALISTS
TruePosition creates mobile geo-location solutions to protect lives and enhance safety.
TruePosition solutions combine location with intelligence to
Bolster national security · Enhance public safety · Suppress crime and terrorism
Since 1992. TruePosition·s single focus has been designing and deploying high-performance
safety and security-related mobile location solutions. TruePosition has gained unmatched
real-world experience through our nationwide public safety location technology footprint in
the U.S. and our multiple international security deployments. TruePosition provides a
full complement of services to support our technology and solution portfolio including
design, deployment. integration and ongoing support
RELIABLE, ROBUST SOLUTIONS

TruePosition designs custom solutions for the specific needs and budget of our customers.
TruePosition solutions are:
RELIABLE - with redundant subsystems and expert support. system uptime exceeds
industry standards
SECURE - built with safeguards against external intrusion

TP SOLUTION
FEATURES
COLLECT
All mobile act1v1t1es
and location
1nformat1on
ANALYZE
Filter and extract data
based on multiple
date. etwork event.
or location-based
criteria

COVERT - all sensitive information is contained within a central. secured location
SCALABLE - able to support large or small deployments with varying degrees of
performance and autonomy
ROBUST - performance. features and capabilities exceed those of competing solutions
MODULAR - integrates with law enforcement. intelligence. or public safety systems
COMPREHENSIVE - with scalable location accuracy and an integrated intelligence platform
INDUSTRY - LEADING PRODUCTS

·The TruePosition ' Location Platform· (TPLP) , which locates mobile devices on
GSM. UMTS. CDMA and LTE networks via multiple location methods including
high-accuracy Uplink Time Difference of Arriva l (U- TDOA) and medium-accuracy
Enhanced Cell ID (ECID)

TRACK
In real time

When phones are idle
Anonymously.
without alert ng
those being tracked
Issue alerts as
suspects approach
or cross geo-fences

· The TruePosition ' Location Intelligence Management System· (LIMS), which
provides intelligence and surveillance capabilities by collecting and archiving mobile
network data and providing tools for advanced analysis.
· Third-party systems and solutions are integrated and deployed as needed.

TruePosition is headquartered in Berwyn, Pennsylvania in the United States. TruePosition is owned by Liberty Media Corporation.
US Headquarters: 1000 Chesterbrook Blvd .. Berwyn, PA 19312 USA I T: +1610.680.1000 I info@truepositioncom

www.trueposltlon.com

THE LOC ATI O N SPEC IALI STS

Infrastructure that is vital to national security, public safety or the
nation's economy c an be targeted by terrorists. potentially disrupting
the functioning of government. producing loss of life or property,
and damaging public morale. Protecting such infrastructure can be
challenging due to:
Lack of funding or focus
· Resistance to cha nge and reliance on old methods
· Location, logistical or geographical issues

PROTECTING
CRITICAL
INFRASTRUCTURE

Securing these sites requires a layered strategy including manpower.
technology and organization. Modern security methods must be
employed to neutralize modern terrorists. who often plan and execute
attacks using mobile technologies.
TP SOLUTION

TruePosition designs and deploys mobile location and intelligence
solutions to discover. deter and apprehend those that threaten c ritical
infrastructure by diagnosing, locating and tracking mobile devices that
exhibit suspicious behavior. The solution enables authorities to:
Collect mobile phone and location data in accordance with local laws
Analyze the data to identify suspects
Track suspects' movements and mobile activities
Take action when appropriate

THE TRUEPOSITION LOCINT' PLATFORM IS UNIQUE IN ITS ABILITY TO:

• Locate all mobile devices. including local subscribers and roamers. regardless of
make. model, or vintage.
• Provide consistent performance over time without extensive recalibration.
• Locate mobile devices anywhere including rural, suburban, and urban environments;
indoors. underground and in urban canyons.
• Provide robust location intelligence capabilities. enabling authorities to collect mass amounts of
data and pinpoint potential suspects using advanced analysis and surveillance techniques.

ABOUT TRUEPOSITION, THE LOCATION SPECIALISTS
TruePosition creates mobile geo-location solutions to protec t lives and enhance safety
TruePosition solutions combine location with intelligence to
Bolster national security · Enhance public safety · Suppress c rime and terrorism
Since 1992, TruePosition·s single focus has been designing and deploying high-performance
safety and sec urity-related mobile location solutions. TruePosition has gained unmatched
real-world experience through our nationwide public safety loc ation technology footprint
in the U S., and our multiple international security deployments TruePosition provides a
full complement of services to support our technology and solution portfolio including
design, deployment. integration and ongoing support

TP SOLUTION
FEATURES
COLLECT

All mobile act1v1t1es
and location
1nformat1on

RELIABLE, ROBUST SOLUTIONS

ANALYZE

TruePosition designs custom solutions for the specific needs and budget of our customers.
TruePosition solutions are:

Fitte r and extract data
based on multip le
date. network event.
or location -based
cr iteria

RELIABLE - with redundant subsystems and expert support. system uptime exceeds

industry standards
SECURE - built with safeguards against e xternal intrusion
COVERT - all sensitive information is contained within a central. secured location

TRACK

SCALABLE - able to support large or small deployments with varying degrees of

In rea l time

performance and autonomy

When phones are 1d te

ROBUST - performance. features and capabilities exceed those of competing solutions

Anonymously.
w ithout alerting
those being tracked

MODULAR - integrates with law enforcement, intelligence. or public safety systems
COMPREHENSIVE - with scalable location accuracy and an integrated intelligence platform

Issue alerts as
suspects approach
or cross geo-fences

INDUSTRY-LEADING PRODUCTS

. The TruePosition· Location Platform· (TPLP), which locates mobile devices on
GSM. UMTS. CDMA and LTE networks via multiple location methods including
high- accuracy Uplink Time Difference of Arrival (U-TDOA) and medium-accuracy
Enhanced Cell ID (ECID)
· The TruePosition' Location Intelligence Management System· (LIMS), which
provides intelligence and surveillance capabilities by collecting and archiving mobile
network data and providing tools for advanced analysis
. Third-party systems and solutions are integrated and deployed as needed.

TruePosition is headquarte red in Berwyn, Pennsylvania in the United States. True Position is owned b y Lib e rty Media Corpo ration
US Head quarters 1000 Chesterbrook Blvd .. Berwyn. PA 19312 USA
www.trueposltion.com

t

T +1610.680.1000

t

info@truep osition com

Mobile phones have become the dominant means of communication
throughout the world . For this reason, governments everywhere are currently
investigating how to process the ever-increasing number of emergency phone
calls (112, 999, etc.) coming from mobile phones .
The benefits of TruePosition Emergency
Call Location:
• Improve emergency response times
• Increase the number of emergency calls
that can be processed
• Maximize valuable public safety resources

The capabilities of the TruePosition
Location Platform:
• Locate all mobile phones, even those
that are not GPS-enabled
• Locate mobile phones in any environment
(indoors, inside vehicles, urban, subu rban,
rural, etc.)
• Locate mobile phones with very high
accuracy and reliability

According to the United States Federal Communication Commission (FCC)
records, of the 200 million calls to 911 in the United States last year, about one
third were from callers using a mobile phone . In some communities, over half of
the 911 calls came from wireless callers. To make matters worse, there is a growing
trend of people canceling their landl ine service in favor of using a cell phone
as their only phone .
With mobile phones, the person calling the emergency number could be almost
anywhere. Added to this, in emergency situations people are often panicked or
disoriented, and cannot provide their exact location . As a result, it is getting more
difficult for government agencies to respond to calls coming from mobile phones,
and to send the appropriate emergency response resources.
When a mobile phone user is in an emergency situation and dials the emergency
number, there is little room for error. They need to be accurately located regardless
of their environment or the mobile phone that they are using . Designing and
deploying a high-performance wireless location platform allows governments to:
•Improve emergency response times
•Increase the number of emergency calls that can be processed
• Maximize valuable public safety resources
The TruePosition 8 Location Platform™ (TPLP™) incorporates a high-performance,
network-based location technology called Uplink Time Difference of Arrival
(U-TDOA), which is ideal for mission-critical Emergency Call Location applications.
Improve emergency response times.
In emergency situations, every second counts. When someone calls an emergency
number, often the person does not know exactly where they are, may not speak
the native language, or may not be able to speak at all. For all of these compelling
reasons, it is necessary for governments to empower the Public Safety Answering
Points (PSAPs) with the ability to quickly and accurately locate mobile phones in
emergency situations.
In the emergency responder world, The Golden Hour refers to that first hour after
an incident takes place . If critical care is not administered within The Golden Hour,
the victim's chance of survival diminishes greatly. In short, the ability to accurately
locate the incident improves response times, and as a result, saves lives.

Increase the number of emergency calls that can be processed .
Currently, many emergency dispatchers around the world spend a great
deal of time asking a series of questions to try to determine where
the caller is. With the caller's location instantly appearing on a map
automatically, the dispatcher can immediately start the questions to
determine the type of emergency the caller has. This greatly reduces
the time that it takes to resolve each call, therefore increasing the
number of emergency calls that each call taker can handle.
Now that practically everyone carries a mobile phone, it is easier
and therefore more likely that they will report an incident. This has
drastically increased the number of calls that a dispatcher receives
per incident. For example, a single car crash on a major highway can
generate hundreds of emergency calls. Having the location information
available, the dispatcher already has a general idea of why the person
is calling . The dispatcher must answer every call, but based on the
location, they can quickly qualify the call and move to the next call.
Maximize valuable public safety resources.
If an exact location cannot be confirmed, emergency responders
often spend precious time aimlessly searching for the correct location .
Sometimes, this means that additional vehicles or even costly
helicopters must be deployed in order to simply assess where the
situation is taking place, rather than getting important personnel at
the heart of the incident. U-TDOA location technology can locate as
many emergency callers as necessary, so that PSAPs can cross-reference
the origins of calls and more easily find the exact site of the emergency.
The ability to qu ickly and accurately locate emergency callers allows
emergency services to be deployed more rapidly and efficiently, saving
precious minutes and precious funds .
Leverage lessons learned from the world 's largest location -based
public safety solution .
In the mid-1990s, the FCC in the United States released a mandate,
which stated that all mobile operators needed to employ a wireless
location solution to determine the phone number of all mobile callers
that dialed 911 . Phase II of the E9-1 -1 mandate requires that networkbased wireless location systems locate 67 percent of calls within 100
meters and 95 percent of calls within 300 meters . TruePosition's
U-TDOA wireless location technology has met the requirements
in all environments and in all air interfaces.

countries have a solid foundation to build on. For one, the technology
needed to deploy a standard emergency number service, like 112
or 999, is a proven technology and is readily available. Currently,
TruePosition's wireless location platform is deployed across the United
States in the AT&T Mobility and T-Mobile networks, as well as several
smaller, rural networks.
Today, TruePosition has more than 90,000 TruePosition® Location
Measurement Units™ (LMUs™) installed, which locate more than 60
million emergency phone calls every year.
Due to the grave nature of safety-related services, it is absolutely
critical to be able to accurately locate the caller every time they need
assistance. At the heart of the TruePosition Emergency Call Location
solution is the high-performance network-based U-TDOA location
technology, which allows the system to:
•Locate all mobile phones, even those that are not GPS-enabled
•Locate mobile phones in any environment (indoors, inside
vehicles, urban, suburban, rural, etc.)
•Locate mobile phones with very high accuracy and reliability
TruePosition's U-TDOA technology uses timing data from as little as
three and as many as 50 receiving antennas, enabling the highest
accuracy for a network-based system. In addition, because it is
completely network-based, U-TDOA can locate any mobile phone .
Each TruePosition LMU includes six radio frequency (RF) receivers,
which is three-times what alternative TDOA location systems use. This
results in superior memory and processing power to calculate locations
quickly and accurately. Unlike GPS, U-TDOA works well in all kinds
of conditions, from outlying rural areas, to inside dense buildings, to
mountainous areas, to cities with tall buildings. Whether a person is
in their house or hiking in the middle of nowhere, the caller can be
located . According to Ovum, however, the emergency call is more likely
going to come from inside a building, since about 60 percent of all
cellular phone calls are made indoors .
The technology is revolutionary . The benefits are priceless .
Only TruePosition has the intellectual property, technical expertise,
and unparalleled operational experience to provide mission-critical
location-based safety and security solutions like Emergency Call
Location . Today, TruePosition's U-TDOA location technology keeps
millions wireless subscribers safe and secure.

According to the National Emergency Number Association (NENA),
E9-1-1 services currently cover 95 percent of the wireless subscribers in
the United States, which translates into hundreds of millions of people.
Furthermore, the E9-1-1 system in the United States is widely regarded
as an overwhelming success by the emergency response communities.
Thanks to the advances already made in the United States, other

C 2012 TruePosition, Inc. All Rights Reserved. TruePosition, Inc. and the TruePosition logo are registered trademarks of True Position, Inc. Other marks containing TruePosition, such as the TruePosition Location Platform, are claimed as trademarks by TruePosition.

,,

True~n·

Law enforcement officials are challenged every day by the sophistication
of criminal activities and the limited resources available to deter and solve
crimes . Police officers cannot be everywhere at once -

and they often have

to rely on outdated and inefficient technologies to track and apprehend
The benefits of TruePosition LOCINT:

• Enhance the ability to identify criminals
and associates
• Improve the efficiency and ability to pinpoint
and apprehend suspects
• Expand the power to predict and preempt
criminal activities
The capabilities of the TruePosition
Location Platform:

• Locate mobile phones with
very high accuracy

criminal suspects.
On the other hand, criminals frequently leverage the convenience of their mobile
phones to commit crimes - and thus leave an effective trail of their activities that
can be exploited by law enforcement.
As part of a layered defense, TruePosition ~ LOCINT'" can significantly expand
current or future tactics, techniques, and procedures (TIP) to fortify and extend
law enforcement efforts.
Turn wireless location technology into a crime fighting solution .
TruePosition LOCINT combines powerful mobile phone location technologies
with a sophisticated data mining solution that can be used by law enforcement
organizations to leverage and extend scarce crime fighting resources to:

• Locate mobile phones with
very high reliability

• Enhance the ability to identify criminals and associates

• Locate all mobile phones, even those
that are not GPS-enabled - the location
capability cannot be disabled by the
mobile phone user in any way

• Expand the power to predict and preempt criminal activities

• Locate mobile phones in any
environment (urban, suburban, rural,
open cou ntry, whethe r indoors, outdoors,
or in-vehicle, etc.)

• Improve the efficiency and ability to locate and apprehend suspects

Enhance the ability to identify criminals and associates .
Using TruePosition LOCINT, law enforcement agencies have the abil ity to actively
identify and track the mobile phones of perpetrators engaged in criminal activities.
The system provides location intelligence to help officials identify mobile phones
of interest that frequently communicate with each other, or that are within close
proximity, making it easier to identify criminals and their associates.
Improve the efficiency and ability to locate and apprehend suspects.
Unlike slow and inefficient field-based location methods, TruePosition LOCINT
enables rapid and accurate identification of a suspect's location . Using TruePosition
LOCINT, law enforcement agents can monitor and track suspects from their offices,
and then confidently mobilize apprehension efforts at the most appropriate
moment. It is no longer necessary to physically deploy agents with direction finders
to track down suspects - a process which is typically time intensive and whose
success is uncertain .

Predict and preempt criminal activities.
Law enforcement officials can generate insightful and invaluable
profiles on the behavioral patterns of suspects using the wealth of
mobile network events and location data captured by TruePosition
LOCINT. When combined with TruePosition LOCINT's "geofencing"
capability - the ability to create a virtual fence around a designated
area that monitors mobile phones entering or exiting the area - and
its ability to perform highly-accurate, real -time tracking, TruePosition
LOCINT provides a powerful array of functions to aid in predicting
when criminal activities may take place and allow for measures to
prevent them.
Enabling Technology.
TruePosition LOCI NT is the combination of the TruePosition~
Location Platform™(TPLP'") and the TruePosition~ Location Intelligence
Management System'" (TP LIMS'"). The TPLP is a comprehensive
portfolio of various location technologies, which can be tailored
to meet the needs of the particular application . One of the location
technologies, which is ideally suited for mission-critical safety and
security applications is Uplink Time Difference of Arrival (U-TDOA).
U-TDOA uses receivers in the wireless network to compare the times
at which a cell signal reaches multiple towers, and then calculates
the location of the mobile phone. Because it is network based,
U-TDOA consistently locates all mobile phones, existing and future,
in any environment.
This location technology allows the system to:
• Locate mobile phones with very high accuracy
•Locate mobile phones with very high reliability

• = TruePosition Location Platform
• = TruePosition Location Intelligence Management System
• =Carrier
Complementing the TPLP is the TP LIMS. It retains all wireless activity
and location information in a database for an extended period of
time to allow for convenient, future data mining of this rich
historical information.
The benefits are invaluable . The technology is groundbreaking.
Only TruePosition has the intellectual property, technical expertise,
and experience to combine a high-accuracy location platform with a
sophisticated data min ing system to provide location intelligence and
tracking like never before. Our innovative solutions are enhancing the
ability of law enforcement agencies to more efficiently identify, tra ck,
and apprehend criminals. More importantly, our solutions help predict
and prevent crimes before they happen .

•Locate all mobile phones, even those that are not
GPS-enabled - the location capability cannot be
disabled by the mobile phone user in any way
• Locate mobile phones in any environment
(urban, suburban, rural, open country, whether
indoors, outdoors, or in-vehicle, etc.)

C 20 11 TruePosition, Inc. AU Rights Reserved. TruePosition, Inc. and the TruePosition logo are registered trademarks of TruePosition, Inc. Other marks containing TruePosition, such as the TruePosition Location Platform, are claimed as trademarks by TruePosition.

TRUE POSITION ®
UPLINK TIME DIFFERENCE OF ARRIVAL

Highly accurate, reliable, and able to work with any phone, TruePosit ion
Uplink Time Difference of Arr ival (U -TDOA) provides the performance n eed ed
for mission-critical location-based safety and security solutions.
U-TDOA is uniquely suited for
mission-critical safety and
security applications:

• Locate mobile phones with
very high accuracy
• Locate mobile phones with
very high reliability
• Locate all mobile phones, even those
that are not GPS-enabled - the location
capability cannot be disabled by the
mobile phone user in any way
• Locate mobile phones in any
environment (urban, suburban, rural,
open country, whether indoors, outdoors,
or in-vehicle, etc.)

U-TDOA Overview.
U-TDOA is a completely network-based location technique (calculating location
based on a normal cellular signal) that requires no additional chip or software to
be installed on the handset. It relies on multilateration, using cell towers, which
makes it well suited for indoor and urban environments. A mobile phone's location
is determined by comparing the time difference of a cell signal reaching multiple
Location Measurement Units (LMUs) that are typically installed at or near the
wireless operator's base stations. The distance can be directly calculated from
the difference of the time of arrival because signals travel with a known velocity.
The difference in the time of arrival between two base stations (one of them being
the reference station) will narrow a position to a hyperbolic curve (i .e. isochron),
and the time difference between a third base station and the reference base station
will resolve it to the precise position (i .e. intersecting isochrons) . Time difference
measurements from additional base stations improve the accuracy of the location
and reduce uncertainty. By design, the LMUs are extremely sensitive receivers,
which allow for many LMUs to participate in a single location .
U-TDOA is uniquely suited for m ission-critical safety and securi ty appl icatio ns.
Simply put, U-TDOA is uniquely suited for mission-critical safety and security
applications, because it is able to consistently locate any mobile phone, anytime,
with high accuracy, anywhere there is wireless connectivity.

High Accuracy.

Locates Mobile Phones in Any Environment or Condition .

U-TDOA is the superior choice for high-accuracy location of mobile
phones. It delivers the most consistent and uniform location coverage
needed for location-based safety and security applications. High
accuracy is important for mission-critical safety and security applications
because it allows the system to locate a mobile phone with greater
precision, which enables first responders to locate where an incident is
taking place, and take the necessary action more quickly and
effectively. The reason U-TDOA is more accurate than other location
techniques is that the measurements used in a location calculation are
more accurate, and there are many more of them. The LMUs are
extremely sensitive receivers that are capable of picking up a signal
below the noise floor, allowing for many measurements to be included
in each location calculation. U-TDOA also takes advantage of signals in
which the t ime of flight is less sensitive to scattering, making the
measurements used in the location calculation more accurate than with
other network-based location techniques.

Wireless subscribers use their mobile phones in all environments indoors, outdoors, while driving a car, in cities with tall buildings,
and in remote areas. Industry analysts now agree that more than
50 percent of the calls made on cellular networks are made indoors.
For this reason, it is important for mission-critical safety and security
applications to locate mobile phones anywhere they are used . Unlike
other high accuracy location technologies, U-TDOA is the only one
that consistently works very well in urban, suburban, rural , and indoor
environments. For indoor locations, U-TDOA benefits from the mobile
phone operating at a higher power level, which is required to maintain
its connection with the wireless network. The higher power signal
allows U-TDOA to locate a mobile phone indoors, w ith high accuracy
and yield. U-TDOA may be challenged in extreme rural environments
where the cell sites are very sparse and there is poor terrain, or when
cell sites are arranged in a "string of pearls" configuration . This
scenario can be overcome by adding LMUs around key or strateg ic
areas to provide additional measurements. For mission-critical safety
and security applications, it is important to locate mobile phones
where used which includes all environments. Only U-TDOA is able
to locate mobile phones with high accuracy in all environments
including indoors.

High Reliability.
In wireless location, reliab ility (measured by the term "yield") refers
to a location technology's ability to obtain a location fix . U-TDOA
provides the highest yield of any location technology, which allows
it to deliver the consistency and uniform location coverage needed
for mission-critical safety and security applications. High yield is critical
to safety and security applications because a failed location may result
in a criminal escaping the authorities, further injury, or even death in
extreme instances. U-TDOA is able to provide the highest yield because
of the many measurements used in the location calculat ion .
Locates Any Mobile Phone.
The ability to locate all mobile phones is important to mission -critical
safety and security applications. Lives are at stake in emergency
situations, and criminals may escape authorities if they are unable to
be accurately tracked . Because U-TDOA is a completely network-based
location technique and the type of mobile phone does not have any
effect on its ability to be located, it provides the ability to accurately
locate any mobile phone - existing or future - anytime and
anywhere there is w ireless service coverage. U-TDOA locates on the
uplink signals that are transmitted as part of normal use of a mobile
phone. Because all mobile phones are covered and it is impossible
to disable, U-TDOA is ideal for broad reach safety applications, such
as E-911 or E-112 emergency services, or target-specific mobile
security applications.

O 2011 TruePosition. Inc. All Rights Reserved. TruePosition. Inc. and the TruePosition logo are registered trademarks of TruePosition. Inc. Other marks containing TruePosition. such as the TruePosition Location Platform. are daimed as trademarks by TruePosition.

Wireless telecommunications carriers in the United States frequently receive calls from public safety and law
enforcement officials declaring a life-threatening emergency and requesting assistance of the carrier. Of these, calls
regarding a suspected imminent suicide are among the most prevalent. Given the ever-increasing adoption of wireless
communications in the US and the resulting increase in wireless calls to 9-1-1, the number of emergency calls from
authorities to carriers will, too, likely increase.

Emergency Call from Victim's Spouse Prompts Authorities to Contact Carrier
In the spring of 2005, the Florida Highway Patrol (FHP) Communications Center in
Tallahassee, Florida received a call from a man who claimed that his wife had
taken their four-year-old son, with the intent to kill both the boy and herself.
She was reported to be armed with a handgun and the man believed her to be
unstable and truly suicidal. In his initial call to 9-1-1, the caller stated that he
believed his wife may have already shot their son, as she had left home one
day prior to that call. FHP officers identified the missing woman's mobile phone
number, determined which wireless carrier provided her service, and then
contacted the servicing carrier with a request for assistance, declaring an
ongoing, life-threatening emergency.
The carrier's records showed that the mobile phone was active and registered, but
had not completed any incoming our outgoing calls for several hours. FHP officers
feared that without any call activity there would be no way to use the mobile
phone as a tool in the search for the woman and her son, given the time passed
since her disappearance and her last call.

Within an hour of
the initial emergency
declaration, the
missing woman's
exact location
was relayed to
law enforcement .

In this case, the wireless carrier was using the TruePosition Uplink
nme Difference of Arrival (U-TDOA) Location Platform to meet the
Federal Communications Commission's E9-1-1 Phase II mandate. This
system is designed to provide real -time location information of
wireless 9-1-1 calls to Public Safety Answering Points (PSAPs), and
was selected for its ability to locate any mobile phone, regardless
of the type of phone, in any environment- including indoors,
in-vehicle, in cities with tall buildings, in suburbs, etc. - with high
accuracy and reliability. This carrier had expanded upon its previous
wireless location system to include the ability to manually activate
the TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform in order to locate any
mobile phone registered on the network, not just those on active
calls to 9-1 -1, in order to provide better service to authorities in
cases of time-sensitive, life-threatening emergencies.

Limitations of Location Systems Tethered to Active 9-1-1
Call Status
PSAPs that have upgraded in effort to meet the FCC's E9-1-1 Phase II
mandate are using wireless location technology systems in order to
quickly and accurately locate wireless callers to 9-1-1 and provide
assistance to those individuals in a timely manner. However, some
of these systems still rely on whether the caller remains on the line
or in the area from which they placed their call to 9-1-1. They are also
dependent on whether the call to 9-1 -1 comes from the suspected
suicidal person or comes from a third party reporting the person's
alleged intentions. In suicide call scenarios, rescue efforts cannot rely
solely on the geographic coordinates of the caller. Instead, a location
system is needed that will locate the mobile phone in the possession
of the suicidal individual, regardless of active call status or movement
of the person after the original call to 9-1 -1 is terminated .

High-Performance TruePosition U-TDOA Location
Platform Locates Victim
Using such an upgrade to its location system, the carrier in this case
was able to determine that the woman 's mobile phone was not in
the Tallahassee area where authorities were conducting their search.
In fact, the mobile phone was not in Florida at all. The TruePosition
U-TDOA Location Platform established that the woman's mobile
phone was nearly 400 miles away in Tennessee, and produced
updates of the mobile phone's location with accuracy of less than
80 meters. FHP officers contacted local law enforcement in Tennessee
and requested the assistance of the local police in an intervention.

Within one hour of the FHP's initial emergency declaration to
the wireless carrier, information about the missing woman's exact
location and a description of her and her vehicle were relayed to law
enforcement in Tennessee, and they were able to quickly locate the
woman and initiate a traffic stop. Although despondent and indeed
armed when apprehended by police, the woman had not harmed
herself or her four-year-old son. In this case, the wireless carrier's
decision to deploy both the TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform
and the capability to manually activate the system to obtain location
information directly helped to defuse a potentially dangerous and
life-threatening situation.

TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform Saves Lives
The TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform was the key factor
in the timely location and rescue of the woman and her son. As
evidenced in this case, not all emergency calls come from the
individual who the authorities need to locate. In these kinds of
mission-critical situations, authorities need to have the most
sophisticated technologies and tools available to successfully
resolve high-risk emergency scenarios. It is imperative that a
wireless location system be able to locate the mobile phone of a
victim or person involved in a suspected life-threatening emergency,
regardless of call status to 9-1-1 or any other call or text activity.
Had this carrier been limited to locating only active 9-1-1 calls, this
woman and her son might not have been found in time to prevent
a more dangerous and harmful situation.
Success stories like these will continue to become more common
as the technology of the TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform
becomes more widely adopted . With proper deployment, more
victims can be located and helped in their time of need . The
TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform can play a vital role in
revolutionizing emergency services - improving response times,
maximizing resources, improving outcomes, and ultimately, saving
more lives.

O 2009 TruePosition, Inc. All Rights Reserved. TruePosition, Inc. and the TruePosition logo are registered trademarks of TruePosition, Inc, Other marks containing TruePosition, such as the TruePosition Location Platform, are claimed as trademarks by TruePosition.

Since the United States FCC enacted the E9-1-1 Phase II Mandate, emergency search and rescue efforts in the United
States have significantly improved, giving Public Safety Answering Points (PSAPs) the ability to quickly identify and
locate people in need of immediate assistance. Authorities and emergency responders have also discovered new
benefits of the technology - for example, how to resolve an emergency situation when the 9-1-1 call comes from
a third party.
Occasionally in violent crimes, a victim's initial calls for assistance are not made to 9-1-1. In panic of the moment,
some victims actually call family or friends, or simply redial the last dialed number on their mobile phone. But even
if these third parties call 9-1-1, the PSAP's location technology is of no assistance
to the actual victim . Such was the case when a patrol sergeant in the Midwest US
contacted the emergency services of a Tier 1 wireless carrier for assistance in a
life-threatening abduction.

9-1-1 Call Comes from Third Party
A woman called 9-1-1 and reported that she had just received a panicked call
from her sister, who claimed to have been kidnapped. The victim had whispered
into the phone that she was grabbed by a man, shoved into the trunk of a car,
and was in fear for her life -

but she did not know her whereabouts. At that

point, the call was disconnected and the victim's sister proceeded to call 9-1-1.
The servicing PSAP for this call had implemented an E9-1-1 Phase II location
system. But because the call for assistance came from a third party, the
technology was of no use.

Within one minute of
the declaration and
description of the
emergency, the carrier
was able to provide
precise geographic
coordinates of the
victim's location.

Furthermore, there was no description of the abductor's vehicle and
no details of the location of the event or direction in which the car
was traveling, leaving the local police few leads to go on.

Authorities Seek Assistance in Search from the
Wireless Carrier
Armed with the victim's identification, mobile phone number, and
the general idea of where the incident occurred, the police sergeant
contacted the servicing wireless carrier to aid in the search, hoping
the carrier could provide the location of the cell tower transmitting
the last call from the victim's mobile phone. Although this information
would help decrease the size of the initial search area, police would
still be faced with a wide-spanning geographic area in which to
deploy a search and rescue force.
Fortunately, the servicing carrier had just completed the deployment
of a wireless location system that utilized advanced technology. The
TruePosition Uplink Time Difference of Arrival (U-TDOA) Location
Platform enables the precise location of any active, registered mobile
phone - even those not making calls to 9-1-1. Within one minute of
the declaration and description of the emergency, the carrier was able
to provide precise geographic coordinates of the victim 's location.
With specific street and cross-street information, responding officers
now had a very specific area of the city to begin the search .

Locating Missing Woman with the TruePosition U-TDOA
Location Platform
The TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform continued to provide
location updates as the kidnapper drove through the city with the
victim - and her mobile phone - in the trunk, helping to stabilize
a location within fifteen minutes. Police headed to that location and
noticed a suspicious van. They heard a struggle inside, and found a
man holding a knife to a woman's throat. Police seized the man and
confirmed that the woman was the victim they sought. After the
situation resolved, the police then contacted the wireless carrier to
alert them that the situation had been resolved, thanks to the
TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform .

TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform Succeeds in
Complex Emergency Scenarios
E9-1-1 Phase II systems are incredibly helpful in emergency scenarios.
However, there are many victims who have not been able to call 9-1-1
that still need assistance. The TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform
can be used to locate mobile phones that have not directly dialed 9-1-1.
As long as the carrier receives the required official declaration of a
life-threatening emergency, first responders can find the person in
need. Officials can use the TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform
to accurately and reliably locate any mobile phone that is turned on,
leading to positive outcomes in emergency situations.
In some emergency cases, initial reports of facts can be complicated
if either the victim or perpetrator are hidden or shielded, like in
the trunk of a car. In these types of situations, a technology like
Assisted Global Positioning Systems (A-GPS), which relies on the
mobile phone's GPS capability and line of sight to satellites, would
likely produce inaccurate location information or no location
results at all. The TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform, is a highperformance, network-based technology. This means it can locate
any phone, in any environment - including indoors, outdoors,
in-vehicle, or in cities with tall buildings - with high accuracy and
reliability. These factors make it the best-suited location technology
for mission-critical applications.
With life hanging in the balance, every minute can make the
difference of life and death. The location system must be able
to generate an accurate location for any mobile device, in any
environment. The TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform has
the ability to improve response times and save more lives.

0 2009 TruePosition, Inc. All Rights Reserved. TruePosition, 1nc. and the TruePosition logo are registered trademarks of TruePosition, Inc. Other marks containing TruePosition, such as the TruePosition l ocation Platform. are claimed as trademarks by TruePosition.

Of the many calls that are made to 9-1 -1, those where the caller is unable to communicate are among the most
challenging for emergency responders. When a 9-1-1 caller cannot ask for help or identify the location of the
emergency, it is solely in the 9-1-1 call taker's hands to assess the nature of the situation and send the proper
emergency response team in a timely manner. When these calls come from mobile phones, the situation is further
compl icated. By their very nature, mobile phones are mobile, and therefore, when a wireless caller dials 9-1-1, that
person could be almost anywhere. This can lead to sign ificant time, resources, and manpower expended to locate
an emergency, with every passing minute putting the caller further at risk.
Since t he United States Federal Communications Commission (FCC) enacted the
Enhanced 9-1-1 (E9-1-1) Phase II mandate, these emergency search and rescue
efforts have significantly improved. The Phase II mandate requires that location
information for wireless 9-1-1 calls be provided to the Public Safety Answering
Points (PSAPs) fielding the calls, giving them the ability to more quickly identify
and locate people in need of immediate assistance, even if the person cannot
communicate over the phone.

9-1-1 Call from an Open Line
Early one morning in Chester County, Pennsylvania, a hotel manager's shift was
interrupted by two armed robbers who had entered the hotel. The men hit the
manager in the back of the head with a gun and then tied him up around his
hands and ankles. At one point during the altercation, the manager tried to set
off the hotel's silent alarm, but it did not work.

The TruePosition
U-TDOA Location
Platform quickly
calculated the
location of the
hotel manager's
mobile phone.

Fortunately, the manager was able to get a hold of his mobile
phone, at which point he dialed 9-1-1, and dropped the phone
onto the floor to avoid it being seen by the robbers.
Though the hotel manager was unable to speak on the phone, the
9-1-1 call taker heard commotion in the background, and quickly
assessed that it was an emergency situation and that someone
needed help. Unable to ask the person on the line any questions
regarding the location of the emergency, the call taker needed
another way to determine the location of the mobile phone in
order to direct emergency response teams where to go.

Wireless Operator Using High-Accuracy Emergency
Call Location System
The wireless carrier servicing the hotel manager's 9-1-1 call had
implemented the TruePosition Uplink Time Difference of Arrival
(U-TDOA) Location Platform, a network-based wireless location
determination system that calculates, with high accuracy, the
location of mobile phones that dial 9-1-1 , in compliance with
the FCC's E9-1-1 Phase II mandate. This system provides real
t ime location data of wireless 9-1-1 calls to the PSAPs that
receive and respond to 9-1-1 calls.
Though there are several location technologies, mobile network
operators using the TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform have
selected the network-based system for its ability to locate any type
of mobile phone in any environment, including indoors, inside a
car, and in urban, suburban, or rural areas, all with high reliability.
A handset-based technology like the Assisted Global Positioning
System (A-GPS) not only requ ires a switch to GPS-enabled mobile
phones for all subscribers, but it has difficulty obta ining a location
fix if the line of sight from the phone to the satellites is blocked .
In this situation, it would have been difficu lt or perhaps even
impossible for the manager's mobile phone to be located using
A-GPS, since the phone was not only indoors, but on the floor,
and likely further obstructed by other objects in the room .

Locating the 9-1-1 Caller with the TruePosition U-TDOA
Location Platform
The TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform quickly calculated
the location of the hotel manager's mobile phone and produced
latitude and long itude coordinates, which appeared on a map on

the 9-1-1 call taker's computer screen. As a result, even without
verbal communication with the caller, the 9-1 -1 call taker was
able to identify the actual location of the hotel manager's mobile
phone within a few meters and pass that information to a police
dispatcher. Based on the information provided, law enforcement
officials were able to determine that the site of the emergency
was at the hotel.
Upon arriving at the hotel shortly after the 9-1-1 call came in, police
discovered the robbery in progress. Police confronted the robbers,
and an altercation ensued that resulted in the eventual death of
one suspect and the apprehension and arrest of the other. Because
the officers were able to arrive so quickly, the hotel manager was
spared of any further harm, the stolen money was recovered, and
a life-threatening event was avoided.

The TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform is Critical
The critical factor leading to the quick resolution of the lifethreatening situation at the hotel was the implementation of the
TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform by the wireless operator.
Because the 9-1-1 call taker could not communicate w ith the caller,
it would have been nearly impossible to dispatch law enforcement
in a timely manner had the wireless location information been
inaccurate or unavailable. If the wireless location technology
implemented by the carrier been limited to producing general cell
site and sector information, the data likely would not have been
accurate enough to quickly determine the mobile phone's actual
location . Moreover, if the carrier had relied on A-GPS for location
data, the mobile phone's location might not have been calculated
at all. Because authorities had access to the location information
from the TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform, a quick, successful
resolution was brought about.
In many emergency call scenarios, the callers are unable to
communicate or simply cannot identify their location. However,
with the implementation of the TruePosition U-TDOA Location
Platform, individuals can be located quickly in their time of need,
regardless of the type of mobile phone they are using or what type
of environment they are in . The TruePosition U-TDOA Location
Platform plays a crucial part in improving response times and
maximizing valuable manpower and resources in emergency
scenarios, resulting in better outcomes and ultimately, saving
more lives.

C 2009 TruePosition, Inc. Al l Rights Reserved. TruePosition, Inc. and the TruePosition logo are registered trademarks of TruePosition. Inc.. Other marks containing TruePosltion. such as the TruePosition location J>tatform,. are claimed as trademarks by TruePosition.

One morning, a corrections officer in Hamilton County, Ohio had completed her night sh ift and was headed home. As
she neared her car, she was approached by a man with a gun, whom she recognized as a recent parolee of the prison .
Keeping her at gunpoint and slicing her repeatedly with a box cutter, the man bound her with duct tape and forced
her into the trunk of a car. The man, later described by police as a violent career criminal, fled the premises and
headed for the interstate highway. When the corrections officer did not arrive home at her normal time, and calls to
her mobile phone went unanswered, her family called the prison. Prison officials also tried to contact the guard with
no success. Officials then issued an "officer needs assistance" call to state and local authorities.

Law Enforcement Collaborates with the Wireless Carrier
Deputies of the Hamilton County Sheriff's Department quickly determined the
wireless carrier servicing the abducted officer's mobile phone, and contacted the
emergency support line for assistance. Investigators needed to know if any
incoming or outgoing calls had been completed on the officer's phone, in hopes
that the carrier could identify the cell towers servicing those calls. While the
wireless carrier's account record details showed no incoming our outgoing calls
had been completed since the officer was last seen, it did show that her phone
was turned on and registered to a network in southeastern Kentucky.
Fortunately, the wireless carrier had implemented the TruePosition Uplink Time
Difference of Arrival (U-TDOA) Location Platform, a network-based location
determination system that provides high-accuracy location of wireless 9-1-1 calls
in support of the United States Federal Communications Commission's E9-1-1
Phase II mandate.

It is impressive that
law enforcement
officials were able to
find and rescue the
officer so quickly
with very few leads.

The system locates any mobile phone in any environment, even if the
phone is not currently making a call or sending a text message.

TruePosition U-TDOA Platform Provides Key Leads for
Law Enforcement
The TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform quickly calculated the
precise location of the officer's mobile phone on a highway, and
produced repeated location updates showing the direction of travel.
Law enforcement officials contacted their counterparts in Kentucky
and, although still unaware of the exact nature of the officer's
disappearance, Kentucky officials immediately set up a roadblock
and apprehended the vehicle.
The abductor was taken into custody and the officer was rescued
without further injury. Because she was taken quite far from the
initial location of the abduction, it is impressive that law
enforcement officials were able to find and rescue the officer so
quickly with very few leads. There were a few factors that, when
combined, led to her speedy rescue. First, the phone had gone
unnoticed by her abductor. More importantly, however, the officer
was a mobile phone subscriber of a carrier that had deployed the
TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform.

Why U-TDOA was Selected for the Emergency Call
Location System
The carrier had selected the TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform
for use in its emergency call location system after extensive and
careful evaluation of handset-based versus network-based solutions.
Handset-based technologies, such as Assisted Global Positioning
System (A-GPS), require costly and time-consuming handset
upgrades for all subscribers. A-GPS also has difficulty getting a
location fix if the line of sight to the satellites is blocked. For
instance, it would have trouble determining location if a call
was made indoors, in a vehicle, or in a city with tall buildings,
making it inadequate for mission-critical applications like
locating emergency calls.

The TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform was selected because
it can locate any mobile phone with no upgrades needed. It can
locate mobile phones in any environment, including indoors, in
cities with tall buildings, in-vehicle, suburban, and rural conditions,
all with high reliability. These factors made the TruePosition U-TDOA
Location Platform the ideal choice for the carrier's emergency call
location system .

TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform Makes the
Difference
The TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform was the key factor in the
timely rescue of the officer. For mission-critical applications, it is
imperative that the mobile phone be quickly and accurately located,
regardless of brand, environment, or whether the phone is in use.
Had the carrier been limited to location-based technologies that rely
on first and last cell sites servicing completed calls, there would have
been no data indicating the officer's true location. Or, if the carrier
had relied on A-GPS for location calculation, the mobile phone's
location might not have been calculated, since the mobile phone was
shielded in the trunk of the car.
As evidenced in this case, not all victims with mobile phones are
physically able to call 9-1-1 for assistance. However, with proper
deployment of the TruePosition U-TDOA Location Platform, these
victims may still be located in their time of need . This system can play
an integral part in optimizing outcomes, especially in emergency and
other mission-critical scenarios, while maximizing manpower and
resources, and ultimately saving more lives.

C 2009 TruePosition, Inc. All Rights Reserved. TruePosition, lnc. and the True Position logo are registered trademarks of TruePosition. Inc. Other marks containing TruePosition, such as the True Position location Platform. are claimed as trademarks by True Position.

C rporate Headquarters
10 O Chesterbrook Blvd.

~~~wyn, PA 19312-1084

P:

~1610.680.1000

F: t 1 610.680.1199
inf @trueposition.com

w w.trueposition.com

