W

ТЛГг(

W

1

COMPANY
PROFILE

T
H
E
C
O
M
P
A
N
Y

Introducing TTC TELEKOMUNIKACE.
Among the wide professional p
u
s.i
b
l i c . T and
T Cmanufacturing
T E L E K telecommunication equipment'
-developing
O
I KtoA the
C E
. when the communication and
.reaching
o M U Nback
time
.transmission technology research and development institutions
i and facilities were being formed in post war Czechoslovakia,
si.e. in the I 950s. since then, the Company has undergone
P
many significant transformations — from a state-owned
eresearch institution up to today's modern private development
rand manufacturing company.TTC's main business focus is,
cand will remain, on the provision of reliable communication
esolutions to our ever more demanding customers in the
i telecommunications industry and elsewhere.
v
eThe telecommunication equipment developed and made by
dП С ТLЕКОМUNIКАСЕ, s.r.o. is used in the public networks
aof telecommunication operators and in the networks of many
sprivate business companies and state organisations both in
athe Czech Republic and abroad. In addition to the traditional
ctelecommunication solutions, we also offer complete commuonication solutions that support the convergence of voice and
mdata networks and make use of the benefits of ‚ P
- b a s e d v oand
i advance
c e
wireless technologies.
pcommunications
a
n
y
w

Historical Milestones
1953 Te l e c o m m u n i c a t i o n s Research Institute (VUT)
established as a sectoral research institution
1958 I 989 The Institute represented a scientific and
research base of the telecommunications
industry (it was a part of the TESLA,
ТЕ5LА IE Group)
1989— 1992 The Institutes activities were extended and
the Institute became a development and
manufacturing enterprise.The Institute was
privatised and incorporated as ТЕLА
TELEKOMUNIKACE, spol. s no.
1993— 1996 subsidiaries were established and theTTC
Group was formed
1997 T T C TELEKOMUNIKACE, s.r.o. obtained
Quality Management Certificate under ISO
9001
2001 T T C TELEKOMUNIKACE. s.r.o. obtained from
the National security Authority a security
clearance certificate for working with classified
information at the SECRET level. TELEPORT
teIehouse was built.
2003 — 2006 T T C was incorporated as a holding company
and registered as П С TELEKOMUNIKACE, s.r.o.

Group structure
(from the view of firms business activities in C T )

П С TELEKOMUNIKACE,

immoloot l

П С TELSYS,

i Т СОNI
Г

П С MARCONI .г.о. ( )

n
( MARCONI
ПС MARCONI sr.o ( 5
0

Vision, Mission, strategy
We are a major 'CT company, developing and delivering
specific hardware and software with focus on our
customers success.We supply complete solutions with
a high added value, based on the latest technologies.
Using our services, customers can fully focus on their
core business and develop it on a continuous basis.
I Our vision is being an innovator in the area of
telecommunication products and solutions.a high-quality
system integrator and a reliable partner.
' W e can understand our customers.We are guided by their
needs and help them achieve their business targets through
the implementation of communication technologies.

Certificates
T T C T E L E K O M U N I K A C E ' s.r.o. is the holder
of certificates that confirm:
I conformity of the quality management system to the

requirements of the CSN EN ISO 9001 2001
and f N EN 150 14001:2005 standards
• conformity of the quality management system to the
requirements of Czech Defense standard COS 051622
(AQAP 2110)
I access to classified information at the SECRET level
—according to the National Security Authority (NBU)

'
C
T

Information and communication technologies (ICTs)
contribute significantly to the Company's long-term success
in the highly competitive environmenc.Today more than ever
before, ICTs are linked to the life of the modern and
progressive society and are even able to influence the
society by their development and technological advance.
Convergence of voice technologies and data technologies
opens up wide possibilities to use the combined benefits of
both and — combined with applied development — it gives
rise to new solutionsThus we offer solutions, for example,
for the following systems:
• Operational and tactical communication for the military
• Central control facilities for both civil and military sectors
• lnteroperability of crisis management in the civil sector
• security and protection of power networks
• Communication and monitoring for linear structures and
infrastructures
i security of transmission of multimedia content

РRОDUСТ
AND sERvicEs
Telecommunication
In keeping with our Company's strategy and tong tradition
in the telecommunication development area, we offer a wide
portfolio of products and solutions, respecting and reflecting
market requirements, new technological and social trends as
well as our customers' — our partners' — focus on success.
Thanks to the convergence of voice and data, the Company's
digital switchboards and control centres of transmission
subsystems are enhanced with TCP/IP-based data
transmission services, and are able to support a wide
spectrum of communication interfaces.
To meet customers' requirements for the security of
communication systems we offer effective state-of-the-art
solutions for ensuring the secure protection of multimedia
content transmission and provide a complete range of
services related to the implementation of the entire system.
For specific projects such as the construction of energy
networks we develop and supply on a long-term basis special
equipment with multifunctional use: securing dispatcher
communication, creating transmission networks, transmitting
protection commands and signals, local signal phasing etc.
I Developing and implementing communication equipment
and applications for voice and data systems
I Modular solutions for control centres
(dispatcher workplaces)
• special multifunctional solutions for demanding customers
• Enhancing and modernising existing communication
infrastructures
I Communication system security
1 Communication technology servicing

Information technology
-4

Data and voice applications are integral parts of information
or communication systems.Tailored applications provide
customers with effective solutions, meeting their specific
needs or expectations.This approach fully reflects trends in
the industry in our latest solutions, application software, for
example, solutions to special voice applications. Based on our
own lPTouchCall technology, these solutions are applied in
specific segments. iPTouchCall is a modular open solution
for a dispatcher workplace, which can be easily integrated
with the data network and corporate applications
Our company supports the full process of system
integration incl. related services i.e. conducting preliminary
analysis, project design, execution of the project, in addition
to its service activities.

i system integration
I Developing and implementing communication applications
for different platforms
I Training of the users of the applications being offered

Outsourcing
Our customers are feeling an increasing need to outsource
the services that can be purchased with advantage outside
their own organisation.This trend is supported by the
general pressure on organisations to achieve a higher
economic and operational efficiency while maintaining a high
quality of output. It is in this context that we have selected
—from the wide portfolio of our services — our professional and manufacturing resources, supported by many years'
experience in the IT/Telco area, to offer them to customers
in the sector of communication equipment development and
manufacture
I Advising and consulting
I Customised electronic device manufacturing upon request
I Research & development services
I Data and telecommunication infrastructure services

Manufacturing technologies
Our company's manufacturing capabilities include
all-round services in the area of the fitting and testing
of printed circuit boards and installation of assemblies.
We also deliver complete manufacturing processes,
ranging from the purchase of material up to distribution
to customers, partners.The high quality and reliability of
our work is guaranteed by the optimum setting of our
quality management system based on the i s o 9001
standard and by our environmental policy based on the
5N ISO 14001 standard.

Advising and consulting
We also provide advisory and consulting services, including primarily the provision of our human resources and
our research and development facilities to our customers
or partners who are interested in using them on an
outsourcing basis.
Data and telecommunication
infrastructure services
Our activities also include the provision of data and
telecommunication infrastructure services supported by
a comprehensive range of administrative and operating
facilitiesThis includes the services of the Company's
telehousing and hosting centre -'ГГСТЕLЕРОRТ - which
is independent of operators and service providers in
terms of connectivity.

I
BUSINEss
RЕU LTs
Sales of own Products and services of
П С TELEKOMUNIKACE
and TTC HOLDING (consol) in 2000-2006

— sales 0
f П sales
С Т ofTTC
Е
milь
HOLDING (consol)
L Е К О
М U N I
К А С Е

sales of
2000

С TELEKOMUNIKACE
423 000

200
'2002

409 000

2003

232000

2004

265 000
202 000
0
350000

2005
2006

264000

PARTNERs
Cisco systems. Inc
Siemens, s.r.o., BT
Retia. as.
D C o m , spol• s г о .

CUsTOMERs
Теlеfбпiса 0 2 (formerly CeskyТеlесоm), Czech and Slovak
energy companies, Czech Raiiways,Transgas, Slovtrarisgaz,
Army of the Czech Republic'Armed Forces of the Slovak
Republic, Revenue Offices, Italian Railways and others.

CONTACT
TTC TELEKOMUNIKACE. s.r.o.

Ti'cbohosticka 987/5
100 00 Praha 10
Czech Republic

Tel.: +420 234 052 I 11
Fax: +420 234 052 338
www.ttc.cz
Email: ttc@ttc.cz
Commercial Dept.: sales@ttc.cz

