utimaco®
a member of the Sophos Group

Utimaco LIMS™
Lawful Interception of Telecommunication Services

Benefits
Compliance

+

Provides surveillance of all common
telecommunication services in fixed
and mobile networks , incl. telephony,
fax, SMS , MMS , Push-to-Talk ,
Internet, e-mail, VoIP, webmail,
instant messaging and others

+

Complies with regulatory requirements

+

Conforms to international lawful

in numerous countries worldwide
interception standards of ETSI , 3G PP,
ATIS/ANSI , CableLabs and others

Cost Efficiency

+

Lawful Interception of Telecommunication Services

even in heterogeneous networks

+

Modular, scalable architecture for
small to very large communication

Throughout the world providers of telecommunication services are required to support law enforcement

networks

agencies in their fight against crime and terrorism . Network operators and telecommunication service
providers have to install interception facilities in their network to fulfil these obligations. The legal frame-

Central management of all intercepts

+

Smooth integration into available
networks

work of lawful interception (LI) is defined by national laws and regulations , the technical details are defined by a number of international technical standards .
Utimaco LIMS (Lawful Interception Management System) is a proven solution for network operators and
service providers to automate the administrative and operative tasks related to lawful interception. The
system is based on a ce ntral management platform for the survei llance of co mmunication services and
implements electronic interfaces to various authorized law enforcement agencies and their monitoring
centers.

Reliability

+
+
+

any negative impact on the performance and reliability of the network and revenue generating services.

Continuous enhancements support
the latest technologies and standards

+

lawful interception in virtually any fixed , mobile, and Internet service provider's environment without
Communication services supported include telephony, fax , SMS , MMS, e-mail , voicemail , VoIP, webmail

No negative impact on performance
or reliability of networks and services

Utimaco LIMS offers the industry's broadest range of supported network elements for active
interception as well as highspeed network probes for passive interception . This approach enables

Meets highest security demands

Close coope ration with regulatory
authorities and standardization bodies

+

16 years of experience in lawful interception

and instant messaging as well as other Internet services. While the system is designed for large-scale
networks with millions of subscribers, the LIMS suite easily scales to economical ly feasible solutions for
networks with only a few thousand users. The modular architecture of LIMS facilitates cost-effective extension
and adaptation to new technologies and regulatory requirements .
LIMS complies with international LI standards of ETSI , 3GPP, ATIS/ANSI and CableLabs and satisfies
the highest security requirements to protect the privacy of all associated data . Utimaco supports providers,
carriers, and LEAs in need of lawful interception solutions with consulting and technical support services,
and also provides managed service models together with qualified solution partners.

About Utimaco
For more than 25 years Utimaco is a leading global provider of data security solutions . Since 1994 Utimaco has been
providing lawful interception systems for mobile and fixed network operators and Internet service providers .
Utimaco Data Retention Suite was introduced in response to the EU directive 2006/24/EC and at the request of telecom
customers for integrated LI and DR solutions. With more than 160 installations in 60 countries, Utimaco is a leading
global supplier in the LI market.
While Utimaco data security products are now distributed by Sophos, the business units ,,Lawful Interception and
Monitoring Solutions" and ,,Hardware Security Module" form Utimaco's operating businesses.

utimaco®
a member of the Sophos Group

Utimaco LIMS™
Networks & Services
Law Enforcement
Agency

+ GSM , GPRS , UMTS , CDMA,
CDMA2000 , LTE

LI H.lndover
lnterfare

+ PSTN (Fixed Telephony)
+ xDSL, cable
+ WiMAX, WLAN

Fixed Network

+ SMS , MMS , Voicemail

Management Server

+ PoC (Push-to-Talk over Cellular)
+ - - xi

+ Internet Access (1Pv4 and 1Pv6)
+ VoIP (SIP, RTP, H.323 , SCCP )

M'tdiahon Device 1

Database

Mediation Deince 2

Decoder SSL

Mediation Devlce 3

Gateway

Medrahon OeVIOB n

Remote Provist0ntrtg Umt

Mobile Network

+ E-mail (POP3 , SMTP, IMAP, webmail)
+ other IP-based services

Lawful Interception Standards
+ ETSI TS 101 671 (voice) , TS 101 331
(generic) , ES 201 158 (generic),
TS 102 232-1to102 232-6 (IP, E-Mail ,
VoIP)

INI:
IRI:
CC

Internal Network Interface
Interception Related lnfonnat1on
Content of Communication

+ ANSl/ATIS : J-STD-025-B (Voice ,

x1 , x2 , x3

Internal Network Interfaces for LI Provis1omng. /RI
and CC exchange
H1, H2, H3 Standard handover interface to the Law Enforcement
Agency for LI Provisioning, /RI and CC exchange

CDMA), T1 .678 (VoIP), T1 .IPNA,
T1 .IAS (IP) , T1 .724 (UMTS), TIA-1072
(PoC)
+ 3GPP : TS 33 .106, TS 33 .107,
TS 33 .108 (UMTS)
+ PacketCable v1 .5 (Cable)

Key Features
+ Central administration of intercepts and target assignments
+ Active and passive interception of voice and data services
+ Collection and mediation of intercepted data from all network nodes
+ Standard compliant delivery of intercepted communications to the appropriate

Vendor Interfaces
+ Acme Packet, Arris, Bridgewater,

law enforcement agency
+ Comprehensive user management with granular access rights

Broadsoft, Casa Systems, Cisco ,

+ Multi-tenancy, segregates up to 64 different networks/providers

Ericsson . Huawei , lptego, Juniper,

+ Authority management

Motorola , Nokia Siemens Networks ,

+ Integrated system administration and alarm monitor

Nortel , Redback , Sitronics, Sonus ,

+ Security features

Starent Networks , Sun , Thomson-

- RBAC (Role-based Access Control)

Cirpack, Unisys , Vocaltec, ZTE

- Transparent separation of multiple authorities

and others

- Full audit trails of all user and system events
- IPsec/SSH/TLS encryption

Performance
+ Maximum number of subscribers :
virtually unlimited , scalable configurations from 1,000 to several million
subscribers
+ Maximum number of interception
targets : scalable up to thousands of
parallel interception targets
+ Probe performance : up to 10 Gbps
per probe

- Encrypted database and backups
- System monitor and alarms
- System redundancy
- Disaster recovery system
- Automatic consistency checks
- Secure remote access
+ Remote administration of other LI systems
+ Dynamic load-balancing
+ Integrated billing capabilities
+ Various language kits available

Network Interfaces
+ 10/100/1000 Mb Ethernet,
10 Gb Ethernet , X.25 , ISDN , E1 /T1 ,
SDH/Sonet, ATM , SS? interfaces

Copyright Information
Copyright © 1994-2011 - Utimaco Safeware AG - a member of the Sophos group, July 2011
Utimaco LIMS ™
Utimaco LI MS is a trademark of Utimaco Safeware AG . All other named trademarks are tradema rks of the particular copyright holder.
Specifications are subject to change without notice.

www.utimaco.com/lims
Utimaco Safeware AG

utimaco®
a member of the Sophos Group

Germanusstraf?,e 4
52080 Aachen
Germany
Phone +49 (0) 241-16 96-0
li-contact@utimaco .com

Utimaco D
Automated Data Retention for Telecommunications Service Providers

Features
• Collects communications data (CDR ,
IPDR) and subscriber data from any
telecommunications network
• Reta ins large amounts of data in a
powerful and secure data wa rehouse
• Provid es very fast search and
analytics in billions of data records
• Automates request processing and
delivers data to authorized agencies
by fax , e-mail , or secure IP interfaces

Benefits

Automated Data Retention for
Telecommunications Service Providers

• Complete solution to satisfy the

Retention of subscriber data and communications related data has become a legal require-

• Lowest operating costs due to

ment for telecom operators and service providers around the world . Laws and regulations like
the EU Directive 2006/24/EC oblige telecommunications service providers to retain CDRs ,
IPDRs , as well as subscriber data for a period of six to twenty-four months.While much of the
data required is being recorded by providers already for billing and marketing purposes , these
new regulations put some cumbersome and potentially costly obligations on CSPs in regards
to data security, delivery of data , and completeness of information .
Utimaco has addressed these challenges with a brand-new approach that is affordable ,

data retention obligations of
communications service provid ers

high automation of workflows
• Cost-effective integration in
existin g networks of any size with
various communication servi ces
• Suitable for large networks with
several billions of CDRs per day
• Reliable system security and
data protection

qu ickly implemented , and secure . Utimaco Data Retention Suite (DRS ) is a state-of-the-art,
purpose-bu ilt management system for secure data retention and fast data retrieval. The
system has been designed to easily integrate into existing network infrastructures that
generate thousands of data records or even up to several billion records per day.

Utimaco DRS incorporates a configurable workflow management system which reduces
operational expenses by automating the administrative tasks of request handling and delivery
of search results to authorized agencies . Comprehensive security mechanisms like granular
user management functionality, strong access control , encrypted storage and handover, and
full audit trails of all user and system events , are fundamental features to support compliance
with national regulations for data protection and for public safety.

About Utimaco
For more th an 25 years Utimaco is a leading globa l provider of data security solutions. Since 1994 Utimaco has been
providing lawful interception systems for mobile and fixed netwo rk operators and Inte rnet service provide rs.
Utimaco Data Retention Suite was introduced in response to the EU di rective 2006/24/EC and at the request of telecom
customers for integ rated LI and DR solutions. With more than 160 installations in 60 cou ntries, Utimaco is a leading
global supplier in the LI ma rket.
While Utimaco data security products are now distributed by Sophos, the business units ,,Lawful Interception and
Monitoring Solutions" and .Hardware Security Mod ule" form Utimaco's operating businesses.

utimaco®
a member of the Sophos Group

Utimaco D

TM

Hardware Specifications

Law Enforcement
Agency

Operation
& Administration

• Oracle X86 servers
• Various configurations from single

(

server appliances to multi-server

https

(

)

(

clusters

HI-A

Hl-B

)
)

• Integrated disk storage (up to 12TB)

+

Handover

External SAN from 6TB to 1OOOTB

Interface
Data Analysis

(RAID )
• Oracle Solaris 1O
Operating System
• Sybase IQ data warehouse
• CE marked , FCC compliant, ROHS

Services
COR

• PSTN telephony

Med1at1on

System

Rouier

Sw11ch

Location
Server

Subscnber
Database

• Mobile telephony & data (GSM ,
UMTS , CDMA)

+

Mobile Messaging (SMS , MMS)

• Internet Access
(DSL , cable , Wimax , WLAN)
• VoIP, Push-to-Talk
• E-Mail , Webmail

Highlights
Seamless Integration
Utimaco DRS has been designed for seamless integration into existing multi-vendor and multiservice networks. The solution can be customized easily to interface with CDR/IPDR systems, log files ,
sub-scriber databases, and other network nodes .

• Other services on request

Multi-tenancy

Security

One Utimaco DRS system can be used to administer warrants and search requests for multiple network operators and service providers. The granular rights management system of Utimaco DRS can
be configured to securely segregate between networks, users , and authorities and thus supports
various business models like MVNO models , managed services, or cross-border service platforms.

• Granular rights management
• Remote access via https
(password , certificate)
• Full audit trail (encrypted)
• Data integrity protection
• Encrypted storage (optional)
• Hardened operating system

Performance
• Loads up to 100,000 records
per second (on one server)
• Average search performance:
5 sec per 1000 query results

Norms and Standards
• EU Directive 2006/EC/24

+
+

ETSI TS 102 656
ETSI TS 102 657

High Performance & Capacity
Utimaco DRS has been optimized for simultaneous loading of massive data volumes and fast query
processing . The system can ingest several billion data records per day, supporting the transaction
rates generated by large telecommunications networks with millions of subscribers . Average queries
results are returned in seconds not minutes .

Strong Security
Comprehensive security features like role-based access control , encryption and integrity checks prevent
unauthorized access and manipulations of sensitive data during storage and handover. Full audit trails
are maintained for all system and user events to provide full accountability for evidential quality.

High-availability
Server redundancy, RAID-5 data mirroring and real-time system monitoring are integral concepts of
Utimaco DRS to satisfy highest availability demands and disaster resilience .

Cost-efficiency
Utimaco DRS runs on broadly available and cost-efficient X86 servers and uses standard SAS/
SATA disks arranged in RAID-5 arrays . This together with the excellent data compression rates
reduces hardware expenses to the absolute minimum .

Standards based
Utimaco DRS is fully compliant with latest ETSI standards in support of the European Data Retention
Directive 2006/24/EC .

Copyright Information
Copyright © 1994-2011 - Utimaco Safeware AG - a member of the Sophos group, July 20 11
Utimaco ORS TM
Utimaco DRS is a tradema rk of Utimaco Safeware AG. All other named trademarks are trademarks of the particula r copyrigh t holder.
Specifications a re su bject to change without notice.

www.utimaco.com/drs
Utimaco Safeware AG

utimaco®
a member of the Sophos Group

Germanusstrar..e 4
52080 Aachen
Germany
Phone +49 (0) 241 -16 96-0
li-contact@utimaco.com

utimaco®
a member of the Sophos Group

Utimaco Safeware AG
Germanusstraf!,e 4
52080 Aachen
Germany
Phone +49 (0) 241-16 96-0
li-contact@utimaco.com

www.utimaco.com/lims

