Utimaco
LIMS Access Points
Realtime Network Monitoring for Lawful Interception and Data Retention

LIMS Access Points

2

Utimaco LIMS Access Points

Realtime Monitoring
with Passive Probes
Realtime monitoring of network connections has been
used by telecom operators for years for various purposes, like
quality of services monitoring, performance analysis, fraud
detection, E911 location and billing. Specialized network
probes are typically connected to the network by taps,
thus receiving a copy of the communications trafﬁc. These
probes analyze the trafﬁc based on deﬁned ﬁlter rules and
can extract data of speciﬁc interest.
Law enforcement and intelligence agencies make use of
passive probes for non-intrusive surveillance of communication links. Compared to the common approach of active
monitoring, where network nodes, e.g. switches or routers,
acquire the required data, probes have a number of advantages with regard to:

Telecom operators and Internet service providers sometimes prefer network probes for similar reasons. That`s why
probes are an integral part of the Utimaco Lawful Interception
Management System (Utimaco LIMS™) and of the Utimaco
Data Retention Suite (Utimaco DRS™).

Management by
Utimaco LIMS

Management
Interface

Mediation by
Utimaco LIMS

Output
Interface

Performance, bandwidth support
Monitoring Interface

Capacity, number of simultaneous targets/ﬁlter rules
Transparency
Accuracy, level of details

Network
Tap
Network
Link

Utimaco provides three types of probes:
LIMS Access Points for IP services

Cost-effective probes for single IP services like e-mail,
VoIP, AAA, SMS, MMS

LIMS Access Points DPI

Deep Packet Inspection Probes for 1Gb to 10Gb
Ethernet networks

LIMS Access Points TDM

Probes for circuit-switched networks based on E1/T1,
SDH/SONET (STM-1 to STM-4)

LIMS Access Points are centrally controlled by the Utimaco
LIMS and Utimaco DRS. All data intercepted by the probes
are encrypted and protected from unauthorized access.
Before data is handed over to law enforcement agencies it is
mediated to comply with international LI standards.

3

Utimaco LIMS Access Points

Deep Packet Inspection
Deep Packet Inspection (DPI) is the name of a state-of-theart technology designed to meet some of the key challenges
relating to the plethora of IP-based communication services.
The ever-growing number of Internet applications and
IP-based protocols make it hard for law enforcement agencies (LEAs) and communication service providers to identify
‘bad guys’ or criminals on the net and to analyze their communications for the purpose of criminal investigations and
prevention of terrorism.
Utimaco LIMS Access Points implement DPI technology not
only to ﬁlter individual IP packets but also to decode and
analyze complete communications ﬂows of more than
300 different Internet applications. The probes can either
extract only the metadata (e.g. source ID, destination ID, IP
addresses, port numbers, timestamps) or intercept entire
communication sessions. Intercept targets can be identiﬁed by a range of application speciﬁc user IDs, device IDs,
network addresses or by keywords.
Utimaco offers a variety of carrier-grade probes for
different networks and services. Customers can select
from a range of LIMS Access Points according to their
actual needs for performance, protocol support and
scalability.

4

Supported services and protocols
Networking protocols
IPv4, IPv6, TCP, UDP, Ethernet, EtherIP,
FTP, HTTP
Tunneling protocols
MPLS, GRE, L2TP, PPP, PPTP, GTP
AAA protocols
RADIUS, DHCP
E-Mail
POP3, SMTP, IMAP, MAPI
Webmail
Yahoo mail, Microsoft Hotmail, google mail,
Maktoob, OWA
VoIP
SIP, RTP, H.323, SCCP
Signaling
SIGTRAN, MTP, MAP, SCCP, RANAP
and many more Internet applications

Utimaco LIMS Access Points

Keeping Pace with New Types of Trafﬁc
LIMS Access Points are designed for non-intrusive monitoring without alerting subscribers or disrupting the service.
The probes can be seamlessly integrated into networks of
various kinds, such as broadband access networks, IP core
networks, or Internet exchange networks. Common network
access techniques such as passive taps (splitters) or switch
span ports help ensure that there is no outgoing trafﬁc from
the IP probe back to the network.

Internet applications are constantly evolving. Regularly, new
communications applications appear on the Internet and
established application protocols are modiﬁed. So customers
must be prepared to keep pace with this evolution. To this
end, Utimaco provides support plans that give customers
access to quarterly protocol updates and new protocol plugins. Such plug-ins can also be customized according to
individual customer needs.

Broadband Access
Network
N
Core Network

Exchange Network

PSTN

Mobile Access
Network

LIMS Access Points

5

Utimaco LIMS Access Points

LIMS Access Points DPI
Realtime Monitoring of IP Networks
Deep Packet Inspection

Lawful Interception and Data Retention

In contrast to many other network probes, Utimaco LIMS
Access Points do not just ﬁlter IP packet headers on wellknown ports but reassemble complete IP ﬂows in order to
analyze the header ﬁelds and the content of more than 300
IP-based protocols and Internet applications. By carrying out
semantic analysis, the LIMS Access Point can track control
connections that induce dynamically negotiated connections
on temporary ports such as passive FTP, VoIP or full multimedia conferencing streams, gnutella or BitTorrent peer-topeer trafﬁc and instant messaging, and is able to automatically decode complex encapsulation tunnels.

Utimaco LIMS Access Points are fully integrated in the Utimaco LIMS (Lawful Interception Management System) and
Utimaco DRS (Data Retention Suite). Intercept targets can
be provisioned centrally in LIMS and will then be distributed
to all connected LIMS Access Points for interception. For
data retention purposes the probes can generate IPDRs (IP
data records, or metadata) for all IP services or for those of
speciﬁc interest. These IPDRs are sent to the Utimaco DRS
for further processing and storage.

Models

LIMS Access Point for IP services
4x1Gb Ethernet (copper)
up to 100kpps
E-Mail
AAA
VoIP
Mobile data

LIMS Access Point DPI 1G
4x1Gb Ethernet (ﬁber or copper)
up to 800kpps
HW accelerated data aquisition
Multi-protocol support

LIMS Access Point DPI 10G
up to 4x10Gb Ethernet (ﬁber or copper)
up to 4,000kpps
HW accelerated data aquisition
stackable
Multi-protocol support

6

Utimaco LIMS Access Points

High-Speed Monitoring

Interception of Ongoing Sessions

Utimaco offers a range of probe models to meet customer
requirements in terms of performance, capacity, and price.
There are small appliances with a 100/1000 Mbit interface and
single protocol support as well as blade-server systems with
multiple 10 Gbit interfaces and sufﬁcient capacity to monitor
many protocols and thousands of targets simultaneously. All
models are designed to provide line-speed performance with
zero packet loss. Blade systems can be expanded by means
of additional line cards and processor cards to accommodate
growing network capacity.

LIMS Access Points keep track of all online users authenticated via the DHCP, RADIUS, or GTP protocol. This feature
enables intercepts to start immediately, even if a target user
has been authenticated before the intercept is activated.

Flexible Target Identiﬁcation
LIMS Access Points can identify targets by various kind of
triggers related to a certain protocol or service. A target ID
can be an IP address, MAC address, user ID, device ID, SIPURL, TEL-URI, email address, URL, MSISDN, IMSI, IMEI,
a keyword, or several other application-level IDs. A virtual
ID manager correlates target IDs of different protocols and
applications in order to capture all relevant trafﬁc associated
with a certain intercept target. For instance, a MAC address
monitored in the DHCP trafﬁc can be automatically correlated to the associated IP address to capture all IP trafﬁc,
a SIP-URI can be mapped to an IP address to capture all
RTP trafﬁc, or an instant messaging login can be mapped
to the IP address to intercept all IP trafﬁc to and from such
a target. For investigators, this feature represents a great
new tool for identifying the communications of a person
under surveillance even when the information available for
identiﬁcation is limited.

Protocol Updates
As new Internet applications emerge and communication
protocols change, network operators must be prepared for
changes and updates. Utimaco offers support plans that
include free updates for new versions of protocols at predictable costs.

Security & Availability
Utimaco LIMS Access Points are designed to protect data
from unauthorized access and to provide timely, secure
delivery to the law enforcement agencies. Security features
include full audit trails, communication encryption, access
control, operating system hardening, automatic consistency
checks and alarms. The probes are continuously monitored
by the Utimaco LIMS or Utimaco DRS system and can support redundancy concepts with hot-standby functionality.

Compliance
Utimaco LIMS mediates and delivers intercepted communications in compliance with ETSI standards, CALEA, and
other national lawful interception mandates. Utimaco DRS
retains the data generated by the LIMS Access Points and
provides controlled access to such data in accordance with
national data protection and data retention laws.

LIMS Access Points

7

Utimaco LIMS Access Points

Monitoring Telephony Networks
Circuit-switched connections are still widely deployed in
modern telecom networks to carry telephone calls, fax or SMS
messages. When monitoring a standard PSTN network or a
2G or 3G cellular network for interception purposes, passive
probes offer a worthwhile alternative to on-switch interception. Probes can either enhance the interception capabilities

Beneﬁts
Highly scalable
from one to thousands of circuits, up to 100,000
simultaneous targets
100% transparent
no impact on existing network links
Mass intercept
monitors all calls and messages and generates
CDRs
Standards-compliant
ETSI conform hand-over via ISDN or IP

LIMS Access Points

8

of switching systems or replace the integrated interception
functionality of switches entirely.
Utimaco LIMS Access Points can be deployed at various
positions in a network for monitoring both signaling and
media. The probes associate the signaling to the bearer
trafﬁc and then acquire the targeted call data and usage
information. All intercepted data are mediated by the Utimaco LIMS before they are delivered to the law enforcement
agency over standardized interfaces.
Alternatively or in addition, the same LIMS Access Points
used for targeted interception can also generate call detail
records (CDR) for all communications session. The CDRs
can be collected by the Utimaco DRS for long-term retention and further analysis.

Utimaco LIMS Access Points

Utimaco LIMS

Law Enforcement Agency

LIMS Management Server
HI1
(target:
MSISDN,
IMSI,
IMEI)

X1
(target: MSISDN, IMSI, IMEI)

LIMS
Mediation
Device

X2

LIMS
Access
Point TDM

HI2

(IRI)

(DF2:IRI)

X3

HI3

(CC)

(DF3:CC)

Monitoring Center

BTS

NodeB

3G Radio
Access Network

IUPS

IUCS

E

A

2G Radio
Access Network

GB

Gn

Mobile
Core
Network

Yu

PSTN/ISDN

Gi

Internet

9

Utimaco LIMS Access Points

LIMS Access Points TDM
Realtime Monitoring of Circuit-Switched Networks
Communications Interception and Data Retention
The LIMS Access Point TDM supports the interception of
signaling, content and location data of telephony calls, SMS
messages and faxes on a wide range of networks:
PSTN
GSM
UMTS
CDMAone, CDMA2000
The probes are fully integrated in the Utimaco LIMS and DRS,
where intercepted data is mediated and retained.

Target Identiﬁcation
The LIMS Access Point is capable of correlating different identities of a single subscriber, even over multiple interfaces. Each
probe tracks in realtime all occurrences of MSISDNs, IMSI,
MSRN, IMEI, and TMSI. This allows the probe to acquire all
data related to a target by just deﬁning one of its identities.

Content Analysis
Realtime monitoring with the LIMS Access Point is not restricted to signaling only. The probe can also detect and extract
DTMF tones, CAS tones (C5, R2), and fax/modem calls from
bearer channels. The integrated CIC mapping technology
assures accurate automatic correlation between signaling
and bearer channels.

Interface Support
E1/T1
SDH/SONET (STM-1/OC3, STM-4/OC-12)
1G Ethernet (1000Base-T)

Protocol Support
SS7 ISUP/TUP (incl. country speciﬁc implementations)
ISDN PRI, C5, R2, DTMF, fax/modem
GSM/CDMA A-Interface, Abis-Interface
UMTS IuCS, IuPS, RANAP
ATM, HDLC, TCP/IP
SIGTRAN, SMPP

Performance Figures
Scalable to monitor up to 16,000 TDM connections
in realtime
Supports up to 100,000 concurrent targets

Hardware Platforms
Server:
1U 19” rack mount
• 110/230V AC power, redundant
• CE, FCC, UL compliant
Chassis:
2U 19” rack mount w/ 3 cPCI slots or
5U 19” rack mount w/ 8x cPCI slots
• 110/230V AC power, -48V DC power, redundant
• CE, FCC, UL compliant
Switch:
1U 19“ Ethernet switch 10/100/1000 Base-T
• 110/230V AC power, FCC, CE compliant

Standards
ETSI TS 101 671 (TDM delivery)
ETSI TS 102 232-1, TS 102 232-6 (IP delivery)

LIMS Access Points

10

Utimaco LIMS Access Points

Models

LIMS Access Point TDM-S
up to 4x E1/T1 (duplex) integrated
2 x 1 Gb Ethernet (copper)
1U server

LIMS Access Point TDM-M
up to 32 x E1/T1 (duplex) or
up to 2 x STM-1 (duplex)
2x1Gb Ethernet (copper)
1U server + 2U cPCI chassis

LIMS Access Point TDM-L
up to 64 x E1/T1 (duplex) or
up to 4 x STM-1/STM-4 (duplex)
2x1Gb Ethernet (copper)
1U server + 2U cPCI chassis

11

For more information on the Utimaco LIMS and Utimaco DRS, please visit:
www.utimaco.com/lims
Utimaco Safeware AG
Germanusstraße 4
52080 Aachen
Germany
Phone +49 (0) 241-16 96-0
li-contact@utimaco.com

Utimaco Safeware Partner:

Copyright Information
Copyright © 1994-2011 – Utimaco Safeware AG – a member of the Sophos group, February 2011
Utimaco LIMS™, Utimaco DRS™
Utimaco LIMS and Utimaco DRS are trademarks of Utimaco Safeware AG. All other named trademarks are trademarks of the particular copyright holder.
Speciﬁcations are subject to change without notice.

