LAWFUL INTERCEPTION:
A MOUNTING CHALLENGE FOR
SERVICE PROVIDERS AND GOVERNMENTS

Executive Summary
Lawful interception is the legally grounded process by which a communications network operator or
service provider gives authorised officials access to the communications of individuals or
organisations.
The regulatory mandates for lawful interception have evolved over the years, but owing to
international co-operation, far reaching standardisation has been achieved. Most countries in the
world share the view that legal interception must be standards-based in order to achieve
interoperability and smooth co-operation between the Police and operators and between the police
forces of different countries. Standards also enable lower costs of products and ensure adequate data
protection.
Most countries in the world have some sort of regulation in place that covers interception. We
distinguish between heavily regulated countries and countries with emerging legislation. In all heavily
regulated countries, network and service providers have a statutory obligation to ensure and
maintain interception capabilities. They must be able to intercept all applicable communications of a
certain target without any gaps in coverage, and they must provide a network to transmit the
intercepted information to the Police.
Traditionally, lawful interception was straightforward and uncomplicated because it was confined to
circuit-switched networks carrying voice traffic. Meanwhile, the communication patterns have
changed. Today’s lawbreakers have a wide range of sophisticated, encrypted communication channels
available to them, and with the changing communication patterns, the scope of interception has
widened. The trend is unmistakable: service providers will be required to support law enforcement
and intelligence gathering with an increasing amount of data across the entire array of service
offerings and technologies.
The challenges facing network operators and service providers are such that they cannot meet the
fundamental requirements of lawful interception without dedicated lawful interception solution. From
the perspective of the network operator or service provider, the primary obligations and general
requirements for developing and deploying a lawful interception solution are: Cost effectiveness;
minimal impact on the network infrastructure; compatibility and compliance; support of future
technologies; reliability; and security.
In most countries, each operator will deploy its own lawful interception solution, but in countries
with emerging regulation, where the individual operators have yet to build up (or upgrade) their
interception capabilities, an umbrella systems makes a lot of sense. An umbrella system is a single,
integrated lawful interception system that covers all or several operators in a country.
There are many valid lawful interception solutions on the market. The best way to introduce best
practice is to partner with a solution vendor with many years of experience of designing and
implementing lawful interception solutions. A good solution should interface with as many network
elements as possible and support all standards. Operators should consider the long-term implications
of the investment, as they will need regular updates and support and must adapt to future
requirements. The long-term perspective makes it important to partner with a vendor to whom
lawful interception is fundamental part of the product offering, and who is likely to be around in the
long run.

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

2

Table of Contents
The “Lawfulness” of Lawful Interception .............................................................................................................. 4
Standardisation and International Co-operation ............................................................................................ 4
National Regulation around the World ............................................................................................................ 5
The LEAs and Interception Warrants ............................................................................................................... 8
The Mounting Challenges of Lawful Interception................................................................................................ 9
Changing Communication Patterns ................................................................................................................... 9
Protection and Ethics .......................................................................................................................................... 11
The Difficult Future of Lawful Interception ................................................................................................... 12
Managing the Cost of Maintaining Inception Capabilities ........................................................................... 13
Using Technology to Address the Challenges.................................................................................................... 14
Meeting the Fundamental Requirements ........................................................................................................ 14
Monitoring Networks with Dedicated Solutions ......................................................................................... 14
Umbrella Systems ................................................................................................................................................. 18
Utimaco LIMS™, a Leading-edge Solution .......................................................................................................... 19
Main Components of Utimaco LIMS™ ........................................................................................................... 20
Benefits delivered to Network Operators and LEAs .................................................................................. 21
Conclusion .................................................................................................................................................................. 22

List of Abbreviations
3GPP
AAA
ANSI
AP
ATIS
BRAS
CALEA
CDMA
CMTS
CPU
DPI
ETSI
HI
IIF
IRC
IRI
ISP
LEA
LEMF
LI
NWO
SORM
SSL
SvP
TDM
TLS
TSM

3rd Generation Partnership Project: A work group developing technical specifications for a 3rd
Generation Mobile System based on the evolved GSM core networks.
Authentication, Authorisation, Accounting: A network server used for access control.
American National Standards Institute
Access Provider
Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions: A work group under ANSI.
Broadband Remote Access Server
Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act: A United States wiretapping law from 1994
Code Division Multiple Access: A radio channel access method used by several mobile communication
technologies.
Cable Modem Termination System
Central Processing Unit
Deep Packet Inspection
European Telecommunications Standards Institute: An independent organisation developing telecommunications standards to be used throughout Europe.
Handover Interface
Internal Interception Function
Internet Relay Chat
Interception Related Information: Information pertaining to an on-going interception other than the
communication content (incl. metadata).
Internet Service Provider
Law Enforcement Agency: National or local government agencies responsible for the enforcement of
laws (e.g. police forces).
Law Enforcement Monitoring Facility
Lawful Interception
Network Operator
(System for Operative Investigative Activities):
A Russian law passed in 1995 allowing the FSB to monitor telephone and internet communications.
Secure Sockets Layer: An encryption protocol
Service Provider
Time-division Multiplexing
Transport Layer Security: An encryption protocol
Trusted Service Manager

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

3

The “Lawfulness” of Lawful Interception
“Interception” is an ancient concept – at least as old as the postal system – and we can safely assume
that a systematic interception of messages will have been organised already at the time of the
Emperor Augustus. Today, a modern scholarly definition of “lawful interception” is that it is the
legally grounded process by which a provider of networks and/or communications services gives
authorised officials access to the communications of individuals or organisations.

Standardisation and International Co-operation
The United States were pioneers of lawful interception when the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe
Streets Act was introduced in 1968. Since then, the Western countries have worked together to
develop the LI concept. The European Council resolution from 19951 – which forms the basis of all
modern EU implementations of lawful interception – was a result of European governments working
together with Australia, New Zealand, Canada and the USA.
Owing to this international co-operation, far reaching standardisation has been achieved, and most
countries in the world share the view that legal interception must be standards-based. Many
standards have been adopted or emulated by many more countries than the ones that had originally
sponsored their development. The international co-operation to define standards has had four
objectives:
Achieving interoperability and smooth co-operation between LEAs and operators as well as
codifying the separation of duties between LEAs and operators;
Enabling lower costs of products;
Facilitating international co-operation between LEAs; and
Ensuring adequate data protection
ETSI
The European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI) enjoys a leading role in standardisation,
not only in Europe but world-wide.
ETSI has been a major driver
behind the specification of handover interfaces and of the flow
that intercepted data should
follow. It specifies a general
architecture for lawful interception that allows systematic
and extensible communication
between network operators and
LEAs over defined interfaces and
in compliance with national
legislation.
This general architecture applies
to any kind of circuit- or packetswitched voice and data network.
1

COUNCIL RESOLUTION of 17 January 1995 on the lawful interception of telecommunications (96/C
329/01)

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

4

Under the terms of the ETSI standards, compliance is achieved by meeting the requirements for all
provisions of lawful interception, and, in particular, the requirements for the Handover Interfaces
(HIs) to the LEAs. Mandatory compliance with this ETSI standard has been enacted in a number of
countries.
3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP)
In addition to the ETSI specifications, a consortium of technology organisations called the 3rd
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) has defined the technical specifications for lawful interception
in 3G and future mobile networks. The standards 3GPP TS 33.106-108, establish a compliance
framework that has been embraced by many industry participants.
The 3GPP agreement, formalised towards the end of 1998, includes input from ETSI, the Association
of Radio Industries and Businesses/Telecommunication Technology Committee (ARIB/TTC) in Japan,
CCSA China, the Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions (ATIS) in North America, and
the Telecommunication Technology Association (TTA) in South Korea.
ANSI/ATIS
ATIS, the Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions, which is a work group under the
American standardisation institution (ANSI), has defined a number of interception standards that help
network operators and service providers comply with CALEA – one of the four US laws that
regulate lawful interception – passed in 1994 in order to help the US government foster interaction
with network operators to make wiretapping easier. Solutions compliant with ANSI/ATIS standards
provide a ‘Safe Harbour’ for the fulfilment of the LI obligations of the US network operators and
service providers. This interaction was necessary due to the growth in new types of communications,
like wireless phones and e-mail, along with rapid advances in technology. CALEA has been relatively
successful and operators have been co-operative.
ATIS has published new standards for broadband Internet access and VoIP services, as well as
updates to existing standards for voice and CDMA interception.
CableLabs (PacketCable)
PacketCable standards by CableLabs provide the standards for hybrid fibre-coax networks used by
cable television companies to provide telecommunications services (e.g. internet access, VoIP). LI
standards provided by CableLabs are the de-facto standard for these types of networks,
predominantly in the Americas.
SORM
SORM-1 was a Russian system, established in 1996 to monitor telephone communications. It was
replaced in 1998 by SORM-2 to allow the monitoring of the internet, in addition to telephone
communications.

National Regulation around the World
The majority of the World’s countries have a legal framework in place that regulates interception.
Often those legal frameworks consist of several acts of parliament, directives and other legal texts (in
the USA, for example, there are four main laws).
Where lawful interception is heavily regulated, the regulatory mandates are fairly similar, whereas the
situation for network and service providers is materially different in countries with emerging or no
regulation.

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

5

Heavily Regulated Countries
In all heavily regulated countries, network and service providers have a statutory obligation to ensure
and maintain interception capabilities. They must be able to intercept all applicable communications
of a certain target without any gaps in coverage, and they must provide a network to transmit the
intercepted information to the LEAs.
Reliability and integrity
The network and service
providers must deliver precise
and accurate results with the
highest levels of data integrity.
The interception capabilities
must be as reliable as the
service(s) to be intercepted,
and all interception activities
must be recorded and logged.

Separation of
Intercepted Data
Communications data should
be divisible into individual
components; for example, the
metadata included in the Interception Related Information
(IRI) should be separable from
the communication content
(CC).

Transparent Surveillance
The target must not be able to
detect that he or she is being
monitored.

All countries allow legal interception in relation to serious crime such as murder, kidnapping and
hijacking, to aid the police in investigating and construction a prosecution case. Most countries now
also allow the monitoring of criminal behaviour, especially relating to suspected terrorism and mafia
activity.
White-collar crime is an interesting case. Some heavily regulated countries (e.g. the USA) allow
lawful interception in relation to computer fraud and financial offences; some countries (e.g. Italy)
make widespread use of lawful interception to fight corruption; and others again (e.g. Russia)
explicitly allow lawful interception to combat tax fraud.
Immediate
Activation and
Real-time
Responsiveness
Following the receipt
of a warrant, the
interception,
must
be activated within a
few hours, and the
network and service
providers
must
ensure
real-time
delivery of the intercepted data.

Sufficient
Capacity
The network and
service
providers
must have adequate
capacity to handle
the scope and scale
of all warranted
activities. The UK,
for
example,
requires capacity to
intercept 1 in every
10,000 subscribers.

Data Security and
Privacy
Network and service
providers
must
protect
sensitive
data
during
interception
and
transmission. They
must safeguard an
individual’s records.

Decryption
Network and service
providers
must
deliver
encrypted
content in plain text
format if the encryption keys are
available to them.

Other differences from country to country involve the communication services for which network
and service providers must maintain interception capabilities. In Europe, the requirement is to
intercept the access to the networks (circuit-switched or packet switched) plus some services (e.g.
SMS, VoIP and e-mail), but not all kinds of other Internet services ... yet. It is up to the LEA to
extract the application data (services) from the IP data. In Germany, a warrant typically remains in
force for just 3 months, whereas a Swedish warrant can last 11 months. UK law stresses the
responsibilities of the police forces and prevents most intercepted content from being used as
evidence.

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

6

Countries with Emerging Regulation
Different countries have different political traditions in relation to privacy and the rights of citizens,
but a complete absence of interception regulation is incompatible with a modern democratic society.
During the last few years, the rate of adoption of new technology in many parts of the world has
exploded (in the Arab world, for example, the rate of adoption has doubled), but the legislative
framework of those countries has not necessarily kept up.
This is now beginning to change. We are seeing a tendency for increasingly comprehensive regulation
to emerge in countries that have not previously had any. Frost & Sullivan believes that this tendency
will continue, because one of the main drivers behind regulation and standardisation is
democratisation and an enhancement of the general democratic understanding of people around the
World.
Where new regulation emerges, it follows international standards and established principles.
Lebanon, for example, in 2009, implemented new lawful interception legislation “The
Telecommunication Interception Act”. The Lebanese Act establishes that the interception of
telecommunications requires a judicial or administrative decision. Namibia is an example of an
African country that has recently done the same. The regulation follows the direction given by the
country’s Information Technology Policy, published in September 2008, in which lawful interception
features very prominently.
India is an interesting example of a country whose legislation is out of date. The Indian supreme
court attorney and technology legal expert Praveen Dalal considers that India has no constitutionally
sound lawful interception law, because telephone tapping is still regulated by a law that goes back to
the days of British rule, the Indian Telegraph Act, from 1885. According to Mr Dalal, interception is
possible without a Court warrant, and he does not consider the Information Technology Act from
2000 to be a constitutionally sound law to regulate e-surveillance.
There is growing distrust and anger in India regarding privacy violations and violations of other civil
liberties, and the Supreme Court has dealt with the issue several times.
Africa is another region characterised by incomplete of regulation. Before the development of mobile
communications, only the richest city dwellers in most African nations had access to
telecommunication, but this picture has changed. Numerous mobile network operators and service
providers exist even in the poorest countries, and modern communications have become much
more accessible to people.
Frost & Sullivan believes that there will be many implications for lawful interception in regions such as
the Middle East and Africa, not only because lawful interception regulation guarantees privacy and
civil liberties, but because lawful interception is also a powerful tool against corruption and similar
evils which are often the first targets of democratisation movements.

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

7

The LEAs and Interception Warrants
The right to privacy is enshrined in many constitutions and conventions. The European Convention
on Human Rights (specifically article 8), for example, protects the individual against arbitrary
interference by public authorities in his or her private or family life.
This principle is potentially at odds with lawful interception, so, in order to protect the individual, all
legal frameworks define in detail what bodies can authorise interception orders and for what
purposes.
In heavily regulated countries, there is complete legal and
functional separation between the NWOs/SvPs/APs; the
authorisation of interception orders; and the LEAs.
The legal test for authorising an interception order (viz.
issuing an interception warrant) varies from country to
country, and not in all countries will it be a Court that
applies that legal test. In the United Kingdom, for example,
interception warrants are in the hands of the Secretary of
State, who, for domestic surveillance, is the Home Secretary
of the day.
Heavily
regulated
countries will also
precisely define what
agencies (and what
ranks of personnel in those agencies) are authorised to apply
for interception orders.
The Police will always be able to apply, but many countries
go further and include security services, secret intelligence
services, inland revenue, other authorities of the interior
ministries, border protection, customs authorities etc.

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

8

The Mounting Challenges of Lawful Interception
The requirement to assist the Police and other LEAs in their duties is not new. Call record retrieval
in support of a subpoena is a common occurrence, and the US CALEA statute and similar laws in the
European Union and elsewhere direct network operators and service providers to provide the
content of communications (CC) and related information (IRI).
Criminal and terrorist activity of the past few years has hastened a widening in LEA powers. CALEA
has been updated several times to recognise broadband and VoIP services and the scope of the
required interception capabilities in the EU has widened even more.
The trend is unmistakable: service providers will be required to support law enforcement and
intelligence gathering with an increasing amount of data across the entire array of service offerings
and technologies. The need to intercept traffic, occasionally store the traffic, correlate it with
subscriber data and quickly deliver it to an LEA will drive operational expense, causing network
operators and service providers to reconsider their information management practices.
In Frost & Sullivan’s opinion, governments also need to realise that it may be in their best interest to
take responsibility for guaranteeing the lawful interception capabilities, rather than just piling
requirements on top of service providers. There is no arguing that lawful interception is an incredibly
powerful tool in the fight against crime, and numerous potentially devastating terrorist plots have
been foiled thanks to intelligence gathered via lawful interception of telecommunications.

Changing Communication Patterns
Traditionally, lawful interception was straightforward and uncomplicated because it was confined to
circuit-switched networks carrying voice traffic. LEAs would collect lists of numbers called and calls
received by a target, and they would wire tap relevant fixed telephone lines.
Meanwhile, the communication patterns have changed. Today’s lawbreakers have a wide range of
sophisticated, encrypted communication channels available to them, and many of those channels rely
on resources located outside the jurisdiction of the body issuing the interception warrant. With the
changing communication patterns, the scope of interception has widened, presenting a real challenge
to network operators and service providers.
Moreover, the use of anonymous services over the Internet (e.g. hotspots and internet cafés) and
mobile or nomadic use of telecom services across national borders make it difficult to locate and
intercept targets.
Addressing the Widening Interception Scope
In the previous chapter we saw how network operators and service providers must be able to
intercept all applicable communications of a certain target without any gaps in coverage. Considering
that modern telecommunications networks offer access through a tremendous range of technologies
(including PSTN, ISDN, xDSL, WLAN, WiMAX, GSM, GPRS, UMTS, CDMA, cable, LTE and other
IP-based technologies), eliminating gaps in coverage is a challenge.

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

9

Most major network operators have always pursued a dual supplier policy in order to maximise their
bargaining power in relation to the infrastructure vendors and to avoid excessive dependence on any
one vendor. When network operators implement new communication technologies, the deal goes
out to tender, and that often leads to the introduction of new vendors. Network operators may
even award contracts for the expansion of existing networks to new vendors, because they are eager
to take advantage of the aggressive pricing of emerging vendors. Consequently, most operators have
highly heterogeneous networks across which to maintain interception capabilities. This, in itself, is a
formidable challenge.
Networks aside, an even greater challenge is the surveillance of applications. In Europe, user IDs (e.g.
Internet logins), VoIP and e-mail are covered by the regulatory mandate. Service providers must be
able to decrypt the communication content and supply it to the LEA in clear text if the encryption is
provided by the network operator or service provider, or if the provider has access to the
encryption key.
Quality, Speed and Capacity
Despite the technical complexity, the network operators and service providers must deliver accurate
and reliable content and related information.
What is more, there is little time to react and strict protocol must be followed. Once they have
received a warrant, operators have less than a day (typically just a few hours) to:
Verify the warrant
Log the warrant into an
administration centre
Provision the interception

Activate the interception

Begin transmitting the IRI over one
handover interface (HI2)

Begin transmitting the communication
content in real time over another
handover interface (HI3), without
retaining any data.

At the expiration of a warrant, the operator must immediately deactivate the interception. Naturally,
multiple interceptions will operate simultaneously, and everything must be concealed to the target
and to operator staff not directly involved.
Network operators and service providers that fail to meet the requirements are fined by the
authorities, and repeated shortfalls could even endanger their licences, as many countries write the
interception requirements into their licensing criteria.

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

10

Protection and Ethics
Lawful interception is a powerful tool to fight crime, but it is an equally powerful tool to commit
crime, if the necessary protections are not available.
It would be a big mistake to assume that interception only took place in countries that have a well
developed regulatory mandate for lawful interception. In countries with no regulation, interception
can be used by governments to secure power by spying on its citizens, not to prevent crime but to
control behaviour. Although one could argue that network operators are not legally obligated to
carry out interception when there is no regulatory mandate, local operators will not find it in their
best interest to withstand political pressure, and the network operators are often under the effective
control of the government apparatus.
Even in the so-called democratic world, illegal interception takes place, and it takes very little fantasy
to imagine the damage that it can do to an individual.
The so-called “Greek Watergate” scandal which erupted in 2005, is one of the highest profile case of
illegal interception in Europe. It involved 106 mobile connections on the Greek Vodafone network.
The victims were high-ranking civil servants and members of the Greek cabinet2. Four mobile
switches (MSC) used by Vodafone were compromised, and 6,500 lines of rogue software code were
installed directly on the switches, allowing the illegal interception to go undetected for a year. The
perpetrators were never found.
The fact that Vodafone’s lawful interception solution did not include an interception management
system was one of the reasons why the malicious tap was not detected earlier.
Vodafone Greece was fined a total of €95 million by the Greek authorities.
Elsewhere in the EU, it is alleged that one third of all interceptions carried out in Bulgaria are illegal,
and the country is currently under investigation by the European Commission3. In England, Scotland
Yard has reopened its investigation of the tabloid newspaper News of the World which has allegedly
gained access to the voicemail messages of two private individuals.
Although maintaining lawful interception capabilities represents a cost to most network operators
and service providers, not implementing the necessary data and privacy protection measures could
represent an even greater cost. In additional to hefty fines, operators that fail to meet their privacy
challenges leave themselves wide open to litigation which could lead to punitive damages and PR
disasters.

2
3

The Athens Affair, IEEE Spectrum Magazine, July 2007
Dnevnik, 21 January 2011

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

11

The Difficult Future of Lawful Interception
Dramatic Increase in Interception Warrants
Other than dealing with the technological complexity of interception, network operators and service
providers must address the challenge of the growing number of interception warrants which are
issued.
In all the countries analysed by Frost & Sullivan, we recognise the same trend as illustrated by the
Title III Wiretap Orders (interception of CC) from the United States:

Source: Administrative Office of the US Courts and Electronic Privacy Information Center, 2010

In Germany, the development is even more explosive: Between 1998 and 2007, the number of
interception activities grew by 308%, and the share of interceptions targeting mobile connections
grew from 59% to 89% exemplifying the changing communication patterns.
Frost & Sullivan is convinced that the number of interception warrants will continue to rise. Although
the legislation of some countries provide relief for very small service providers, the challenge for
network operators and service providers is that they essentially have no way of knowing how many
parallel inceptions they may be called upon to facilitate at any given time. This means that they need
to maintain significant over capacity, in order to deal with peaks.
The Delicate Position of ISPs
Frost & Sullivan believes that the future of government surveillance of its citizens will be based on the
original CALEA act (and similar laws around the world) and will impact all new communications
mediums and technologies.

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

12

Internet-based communications have become ubiquitous and have grown far beyond the basic
capabilities of e-mail, and the nature of the Internet also suggests that new applications and innovative
tools will be developed in the future to extend communication options in unpredictable ways.
What is fairly certain is that the development of the regulatory mandates will follow the
communication patterns; and that the ISPs will find themselves right at the heart of that development.
In other words, new regulatory requirements may have a bigger impact on ISPs than on network
operators.
It is easy to imagine how the interception capabilities may expand to applications such as Facebook
and Twitter; to peer-to-peer networks, chat rooms and instant messaging applications; and to lowcost voice communication through a variety of companies and emerging technologies such as VoIP
(Voice-over-IP) and Skype.
Because the infrastructure on which those applications rely will typically be located outside the
jurisdiction of a single country, updates of national regulatory mandates will need to focus on the one
element which national legislation can control: the access. This puts the ISPs in a very delicate
position, because the majority of the interception obligations will fall to them.
Considering that many ISPs are small companies that do not have the experience and capabilities of
the large network operators to deal with lawful interception, the challenges are daunting.

Managing the Cost of Maintaining Inception Capabilities
In the United States, after CALEA was passed, Congress allocated $500 million to subsidise the cost
of implementing new interception-capable switches in the telecommunications infrastructure of the
US network operators. With that money spent, the network operators and service providers must
meet the infrastructure costs and the operational costs of maintaining the capabilities.
In the rest of the world, the situation varies from country to country, but the prevailing trend is that
network operations and service providers must carry the cost burden themselves.
Lawful interception is a straight cost, not associated with any revenue stream whatsoever, at any
point in time. The challenge is, therefore, to keep the costs as low as possible but not to accept
shortcuts that might compromise the ability to comply with the regulatory mandate.

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

13

Using Technology to Address the Challenges
Meeting the Fundamental Requirements
As we have seen in the previous chapters, the challenges facing network operators and service
providers are such that they cannot meet the fundamental requirements of lawful interception
without using technology.
Routers and switches are intelligent, and theoretically it would be possible to manually provision an
interception, directly at a router or switch and redirect a copy of the traffic from there. This was
exactly what happened during the “Greek Watergate”, because the perpetrators exploited the
interception-capability of the switches in Vodafone’s network.
If operators allow interceptions to be provisioned manually at a network element, they leave
themselves wide open to abuse, because they are not able to perform consistency checks (i.e.
verifying that the active interceptions exactly match the interceptions that have been warranted).
This again means that those operators would be in breach of the regulatory mandates of most
countries.
In reality, no real-world operator in a highly regulated country presumes to handle lawful
interception without some kind of dedicated solution: it is simply not possible.

Monitoring Networks with Dedicated Solutions
There have been lawful interception solutions on the market for the better part of two decades.
Some solutions are supplied by the network infrastructure suppliers, other solutions have been
developed by independent software vendors and system integrators. Utimaco LIMS™, the dedicated
solution we analyse in this whitepaper, was originally developed in the beginning of the nineties to
help mobile operators fulfil their LI obligations. Since then, LIMS has continuously been extended to
support additional network technologies and telecom services.
Key Components of a Dedicated Lawful Interception Solution
Most dedicated solutions on the market today are similar in architecture and functionality. The main
difference lies in the ability to interface with network elements and in the business model proposed
by the solution vendor.
The figure shows the
typical functional flow
of lawful interception
on
which
the
dedicated LI solutions
are built.
A monitoring centre,
staffed
by
LEA
personnel, relies on
standardised interfaces
(e.g. ETSI or ANSI) to
gain
access
to
communications provided over fixed networks, mobile networks, and IP-related channels. The monitoring interface
handles interception warrants, IRI and communications content separately.

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

14

From the perspective of the network operator or service provider, the primary obligations and
general requirements for developing and deploying a lawful interception solution are:
Maintaining cost effectiveness: The solution minimises the time and effort involved in meeting
the interception obligations.
Minimising impact to the network infrastructure: The solution should not negatively
impact the performance or behaviour of the network.
Ensuring compatibility and compliance: The solution meets the requirements of national
and international standards and is compatible with all network elements that make up the
infrastructure.
Supporting future technologies: The solution adapts to evolving standards and specifications
as they are introduced throughout the world, and can scale to accommodate the bandwidth
increases and performance requirements associated with increased service levels.
Maintaining reliability: The solution delivers accurate results and maintains data integrity at
every stage of the workflow.
Enforcing security: At all points in the lawful interception system, data is protected against
abuse. Surveillance activities are not detectable in any way by targets.
Active v. passive interception
We can distinguish between three types of interception: Active, passive and hybrid:
Active interception means that the interception solution is an integral part of the network
infrastructure. The interception management system is able to directly control the network elements
(e.g. the routers, switches) and to filter and retrieve the IRI and CC directly at the network node.
The IRI and content are then sent to the interception management system, where they are mediated,
and from there to the LEA monitoring centre.
Passive interception means that the network elements transmit a copy of all network traffic to the
interception management system. The filtering takes place on the copy of the traffic within the
management system, the traffic belonging to non interception targets is discarded whereas the IRI
and communication content of targets is passed on to the LEA monitoring centre.
Frost & Sullivan believes active interception to be the better option of the two, due to the lower
capital costs and lower complexity involved. However, active interception is not an option when, for
example, the network elements are not interception-capable. Also, active interception can have a
negative impact on the performance of the network element that executes the interception function.

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

15

Hybrid Interception
As its name suggests, hybrid interception is a combination of active and passive interception
techniques, and it is becoming increasingly common. In the figure below, we illustrate hybrid
interception of the basis of the Utimaco LIMS™ solution.
Straightforward circuit-switched traffic on a network with modern switches can easily be intercepted
using the active technique, because most telephone switches (MSCs) today support integrated
interception functions. Most carrier-grade routers (e.g. BRAS, CMTS) also support integrated
interception functions.

Despite the capabilities of modern switches and routers, there are many situations where passive
probes are required. A good example of such a situation is the provisioning of an IP intercept. First,
the user login must be detected at the central AAA server of the service provider. Seeing that most
AAA servers do not support integrated intercept features, the active technique cannot be used.
Another reason for using passive probes could be that access to the MSC or router is prohibited
(because the LI system is run by another party).
In other words, when MSCs and routers are interception capable but the traffic that needs to be
intercepted cannot be immediately identified (e.g. on the basis of a telephone number), then hybrid
interception is the best solution. On an IP network, this would mean probing for the dynamic IP
address of a particular target (using the passive technique); instructing the router to intercept traffic
from that particular IP address (using the active technique); and relaying the traffic to the monitoring
centre.

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

16

Monitoring Applications using Deep Packet Inspection
With the development of the communication patterns and resulting expansion of the regulatory
mandates we discussed in the previous chapter, network operators and service providers can no
longer meet their obligations without using deep packet inspection technology.
In an IP network, the packets that pass through a network are identified by headers. The network
routers capture the headers, but it is not possible to identify the communication content or
applications used by looking at the headers alone.
DPI is a technology that can be used passively to analyse IP traffic at the application level. DPI
equipment consists of network elements that can control entire classes of traffic on a per user or per
group basis, because they are able to read below the header information as packets pass through
them. That is what the "deep" in deep packet inspection means.
DPI can look inside all IP traffic, drill into the so-called payload (the substance) of the packets, identify
the applications used, pick out specific types of traffic (e.g. HTTP traffic), isolate a particular
application (e.g. Hotmail) and then decode application attributes and content (e.g. webmails sent and
received by the user). The same principle would apply to VoIP, peer-to-peer and any other traffic
that would need to be intercepted. In other words, DPI can create clear-text records for various
types of applications and protocols which are effectively not interceptable by the network nodes
(routers and switches). It is also important to highlight that deep packet inspection is done in realtime (at full line rate speed).
Many ISPs also rely on DPI for other purposes, mainly to manage congestion and give privileges to
certain types of traffic. Traffic shaping can be used to differentiate service levels and to create
broadband subscriptions that might exclude certain types of traffic (e.g. video streaming or VoIP).
BT is a good example of an operator using DPI. According to BT4,
deep packet inspection enables it to better monitor its network
and to give priority to particularly important services. BT offers a
VoIP and IPTV service in the UK. VoIP traffic needs to move
quickly, and IPTV must always have a certain amount of bandwidth
available to avoid distortions to the TV signal. BT accomplishes that
using DPI.
When DPI is used for lawful interception purposes, additional
features are needed (e.g. the correlation of information between
protocol levels and the intermediate storage of connection status
information) to identify and extract the relevant traffic. This is why
most DPI equipment that was installed for traffic shaping purposes
is not suitable for use in an LI solution. DPI probes used in LI
solutions must be interception capable and be integrated into a
lawful interception management and mediation system.
DPI equipment can also be used to pick apart any unencrypted protocol including instant messaging,
chat rooms, and even online gaming. Challenges still exist, however. Internet Relay Chat (IRC) and
instant messaging are relayed through a third-party server, so the chat server is at the centre of the
conversations. This means that the DPI equipment would only identify that Person A interacts with
the IRC third party server, not that Person A communicates with Person B, unless Person B is also
an active interception target.

4

Ars Tecnica, 25 July 2007

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

17

So, although DPI may be able to flag that some sort of suspect activity might be taking place, it is up
to the Police to analyse the content received and to understand what is going on.
In Frost & Sullivan’s opinion, although no one will dispute
that lawful interception is a powerful tool, the real
concern is whether or not the Police will be able to make
sense of data it receives.
Communication data is difficult to interpret outside its
operational context, and the LEAs might not understand
that context. In other words, as communication patterns
and regulatory mandates become more sophisticated,
every LEA that receives intercepted data will need to
become more sophisticated. There is a real risk that insufficiently trained police officers will draw the wrong conclusions and, effectively, do more damage
than good by orientating an investigation in the wrong direction.

Umbrella Systems
We said in the beginning that Frost & Sullivan would advise governments to take more direct
responsibility for maintaining lawful inception capabilities, instead of just assuming that network
operators and service providers will be able to meet the increasingly difficult challenges.
Certainly, many governments (e.g. in France and the UK) will pay a contribution towards the cost of
lawful inception, but in many countries, a government-sponsored umbrella system would be an even
better solution.
An umbrella system is an integrated lawful interception system that covers all operators in a
jurisdiction (typically a country). An umbrella system is a model by way of which the network
operators and service providers outsource their lawful interception activities to a third party,
sometimes known as a “Trusted Third Party” or a “Trusted Service Manager” (TSM).
The element of trust is important because the operators must be confident that their legal
obligations are being met, and because all operators and providers in the eco system must trust the
same third party. This again means that the TSM must be once removed from the competitive
environment of the country and not have stakes or other vested interests in any of the market
players. Naturally, a government itself could very well be a trusted service manager.
In Frost & Sullivan’s opinion, umbrella systems make a lot of sense in countries with emerging
regulation, where the individual operators have yet to build up (or upgrade) their interception
capabilities. Many countries in Africa and Asia could benefit from umbrella systems, accomplishing a
lawful interception “quantum leap”.
Frost & Sullivan also believes that umbrella systems make sense from a capital and operational cost
perspective, because establishing and maintaining a single lawful interception system will be cheaper
than the combined cost of separate systems for each network operator and service provider. An
umbrella system can be used by multiple LEAs, who manage their warrants independently of each
other. Interception activities from different LEAs are segregated, and duplicated IRI and
communication content are delivered to multiple LEAs in the case of multiple activities against the
same target.

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

18

Utimaco LIMS™, a Leading-edge Solution
Utimaco LIMS™ is one of the most significant LI solutions available today, with more than 160
installations in service with operators around the world. In this chapter, we shall analyse Utimaco
LIMS™ as a good example of a leading-edge solution.
Utimaco LIMS™ is a central management system for all tasks related to the lawful interception of
telecommunication services in mobile and fixed networks. It is a software-based solution consisting
of the elements shown in the figure below.

Utimaco LIMS runs on industry-standard servers with UNIX operating system. Customers can
choose between small systems with a single CPU and medium and large-rack configurations with
multiple CPUs and multiple servers.
The LIMS portfolio comprises purpose-built DPI probes (LIMS Access Points) that support real-time
monitoring of broadband IP networks. The probes provide wire-speed scalability from 10 Mbps to
multiple 10 Gbps, with the flexibility to filter IP traffic from link layer to application level. LIMS
Mediation Devices enable the integration of DPI probes and network nodes of various kinds.
Utimaco LIMS currently supports over 250 different network elements and continues to develop
new mediation devices and probes (respectively new protocol plug-ins for the DPI probes) to
respond to emerging network technologies and upcoming lawful interception standards. Utimaco
LIMS provides mediation in accordance with all major LI standards by ETSI, 3GPP, ANSI/ATIS, and
CableLabs.

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

19

Main Components of Utimaco LIMS™
There are five main components of the Utimaco LIMS™.
LIMS Management Server
The Management Server is the core component of the LIMS system. It provides a graphical interface
for all users of Utimaco LIMS to administrate, operate and audit the system. Key functions of the
LIMS Management Server are the administration of intercepts, network nodes (IAPs), authorities and
monitoring centres and users. The server maintains a central database to securely store all sensitive
information, like target data, authority settings and audit logs.
LIMS Mediation Device
The LIMS Mediation Devices perform all tasks related to the delivery of intercepted communications
to the LEA monitoring centre. Mediation encompasses the conversion and mapping of interception
data received from the internal network to the appropriate formats, protocols, and interfaces as
required by the LEAs. Sometimes intercepted data must be stored intermediately in the Mediation
Device before it can be forwarded to its final recipient. Utimaco offers the industry’s most
comprehensive list of mediation devices supporting a wide range of technologies, services, protocols,
and standards. There are LIMS Mediation Devices for more than 250 different network nodes of all
major vendors. The delivery of intercepted data is compliant to various national regulations and
international standards including CALEA, ATIS, ETSI, and 3GPP standards.
LIMS Access Point
The access points are the deep-packet-inspection probes. In passive interception, non-intrusive
network probes are integrated into the operator’s network to filter, decode, and forward
intercepted data to the LIMS, respectively to the appropriate LIMS Mediation Device. Utimaco
provides a range of network probes for all common telecom protocols and network types.
LIMS Gateway
The LIMS Gateway is a modular device that converts packet-switched calls to circuit-switched calls
and vice versa. The media gateway is often needed in VoIP and next generation networks where the
handover interface to the LEAs requires a TDM-connection. In addition to the media conversion, the
LIMS Gateway can also act as a signalling gateway between SS7, ISDN/DSS1, and other protocols.
The modular hardware concept enables customised solutions for small and large networks.
LIMS Remote Provisioning Unit
All of the Management Server’s operator tasks can be accessed remotely in the same way, using the
same graphical user interface and functions as from the local management console. The LIMS Remote
Provisioning Unit ensures that the same security policies apply to both remote sessions and to local
operation.

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

20

Benefits delivered to Network Operators and LEAs
Flexibility and Versatility
Utimaco LIMS™ can interface with some 250 network elements from a whole host of equipment
suppliers. It has more interfaces than any other LI solution on the market today. Network operators
are able to expand their networks and implement best-of-breed technology, without worrying about
adverse effects on their LI capabilities.
Owing to its modular software and hardware architecture Utimaco LIMS can be modified to support
upcoming network technologies and services. The system scales from small networks with only few
intercept targets to large networks with tens of thousands of simultaneous targets.
Low OPEX and CAPEX
Utimaco LIMS reduces the operational costs of providing lawful interception services to LEAs by
automating the interception processes and by using centralised administration.
Capital expenditure is minimised by using one single management system for many different
networks and services. One LIMS can serve multiple tenants to support managed service models and
MVNOs (Mobile Virtual Network Operator).
Certified Compliance
Utimaco LIMS has been tested for compliance with all common international LI standards from ETSI,
3GPP, ANSI/ATIS, and CableLabs. LIMS has been installed and certified in more than 60 countries
worldwide. Utimaco has never failed to bid for a lawful interception deal due to an inability to
comply with international or local standards.
Short Time-to-Market
Utimaco has been developing lawful interception solutions for more than 16 years. The LIMS system
has been integrated and tested with network nodes of all leading telecom and Internet infrastructure
vendors. For operators this means shortest implementation times at minimum costs.
High Security Standards
Having been a leading IT security company for 25 years, Utimaco has implemented highest security
standards throughout the LIMS system. This prevents misuse and provides the legal certainty to
network operators and service providers that they can live up to their LI obligations without
breaching their privacy protection obligations.

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

21

Conclusion
The need for surveillance to combat crime and terrorism has never been greater than it is today, and
the terrorists and other criminals have become extremely sophisticated in their use of today’s
communications technologies. For the police and intelligence agencies, this creates an urgent need to
monitor and collect data from sources other than traditional circuit-switched voice traffic.
The regulatory mandates have expanded to interception capabilities for traffic that scarcely existed
twenty years ago. No one is arguing that lawful interception is not a powerful law enforcement tool,
but it does impose a huge burden on network operators and service providers. In this whitepaper we
have shown that operator challenges are mounting and that many network operators and service
providers will be struggling to meet their obligations.
In Frost & Sullivan’s opinion, there is hardly an alternative to deploying a dedicated, complete LI
solution. Without a complete solution, compliance can be a lot of work and there is an inherent risk
of abuse and other failures to protect the privacy of the users. As we saw in the Greek scandal, it
was the absence of an interception management system that made the illegal interception possible.
There are many valid lawful interception solutions on the market. To realise the greatest benefits
from the investment, Frost & Sullivan recommends that network operators and service providers
should also implement best practice (i.e. overhaul procedures and streamline LI operations) to keep
the operational costs down. The best way to introduce best practice is to partner with an LI vendor
with many years of experience of designing and implementing LI solutions.
Large network operators are likely to have highly heterogeneous networks. They are also likely to
have several legacy LI systems in place, typically controlling different network elements supplied by
different infrastructure vendors. Because most operators accrue no revenue from lawful
interception, continuous stop-gap upgrades to the various legacy solutions at an incremental cost
may seem like the obvious choice, but it may be the entirely wrong policy to pursue.
In the long run, and although the initial investment would be higher, Frost & Sullivan believes
operators should consider migrating to a single, future-proof lawful interception platform.
Frost & Sullivan has analysed Utimaco’s LIMS™ solution, and we are satisfied that it is one of the
most complete and versatile solutions on the market today. We are confident that migrating to a
single Utimaco LIMS™ platform or introducing a Utimaco LIMS™ solution for the first time would
enable most network operators and service providers to meet their lawful interception challenges,
now and in the future.
Utimaco LIMS™ is not unique in the marketplace, but Frost & Sullivan’s believes that its strategy to
focus on interfacing with as many network elements as possible and supporting all international and
local standards does give it a competitive advantage. The decision to design Utimaco LIMS™ around
commercial, off-the-shelf hardware adds to the flexibility of the solution and keeps the incidental IT
costs down.
Network operators and service providers looking to select a lawful interception vendor should
consider the long-term implications of the investment. They will need regular updates and support,
and they will need to adapt to future requirements, so it is important to partner with a vendor to
whom lawful interception is fundamental part of the product offering and who is likely to be around
in the long run. Frost & Sullivan believes that Utimaco is one such vendor.

Lawful Interception: A Mounting Challenge for Service Providers and Governments
© Frost & Sullivan, 2011

22

CONTAC T
US

London
4 Grosvenor Gardens
London SW1W 0DH
Tel. +44 (0)20 7343 8383
Fax +44 (0)20 7730 3343
Oxford
Oxford Business Park South
Oxford OX4 2GX
Tel. +44 (0)1865 39 8600
Fax +44 (0)1865 39 8601
Frankfurt
Clemensstraße 9
60487 Frankfurt a.M.
Tel. +49 (0)69 7 70 33-0
Fax +49 (0)69 23 45 66
Paris
24, rue de Londres
75009 Paris
Tel. +33 (0)1 42 81 54 50
Fax +33 (0)1 42 81 54 52

Beijing
Bengaluru
Bogotá

Milan
Via Mario Pagano, 38
20145 Milano
Tel. +39 02 4651 4819
Fax +39 02 4802 7054

Buenos Aires
Cape Town
Chennai
Delhi
Dubai
Frankfurt
Kolkata
Kuala Lumpur
London
Melbourne

About Utimaco
For more than 25 years Utimaco has been a leading global provider of
data security solutions. Since 1994 Utimaco has been providing lawful
interception systems for mobile and fixed network operators and Internet service providers. The Utimaco Data Retention Suite was introduced in response to the EU directive 2006/24/EC and at the request
of telecom customers for integrated LI and DR solutions. With more
than 160 installations in 60 countries, Utimaco is truly a leading supplier
in the worldwide lawful interception market.

Mexico City
Milan
Mumbai
New York
Oxford
Paris
San Antonio
São Paulo
Seoul

Utimaco participates actively in a range of standardization institutes
and is an active member of ETSI (European Telecommunications Standards Institute) and various other associations like eco, VATM, Bitkom,
Breko and the WiMAX forum. In this way, Utimaco participates in market developments and supports other members with its competence.
Since 1 July 2009, Utimaco Safeware AG has been part of the Sophos
Group, a world leader in IT security and data protection with headquarters in Boston, US and Oxford, UK. While Utimaco data security
products are now distributed by Sophos, the business units "Lawful Interception and Monitoring Solutions" and "Hardware Security Module"
form Utimaco’s operating businesses. For more information please visit
http://lims.utimaco.com.

Shanghai
Silicon Valley
Singapore
Sophia Antipolis
Sydney
Tel Aviv
Tokyo
Toronto
Warsaw

About Frost & Sullivan
Frost & Sullivan, the Growth Partnership Company, enables clients to
accelerate growth and achieve best-in-class positions in growth, innovation and leadership. The company's Growth Partnership Service provides the CEO and the CEO's Growth Team with disciplined research
and best practice models to drive the generation, evaluation and implementation of powerful growth strategies. Frost & Sullivan leverages almost fifty years of experience in partnering with Global 1000
companies, emerging businesses and the investment community from
40 offices on six continents. To join our Growth Partnership, please visit
www.frost.com.

Warsaw
ul. Domaniewska 41A
02-672 Warszawa
Tel. +48 (0)22 390 4135
Fax +48 (0)22 390 4160
Silicon Valley
331 East Evelyn Avenue, Suite 100
Mountain View, California 94041-1538
Tel. +1 650 475 4500
Fax +1 650 475 1570
San Antonio
7550 IH 10 West, Suite 400
San Antonio, Texas 78229-5616
Tel. +1 210 348 1000
Fax +1 210 348 1003
Toronto
2001 Sheppard Avenue East, Suit e 504
Toronto, Ontario M2J 4Z8
Tel. +1 416 490 1511
Fax +1 416 490 1533

