Actionable Intelligence for a s a f e r World
and a s m a r t e r Enterprise

V!!!R
V!
!!!R"
!!R"N
"N#

POWERING ACTIONABLE IN#!LLiG!N$!

••
• i i

yerint h g o v e r n m e n t
and Indust m a k e sense of
the vast If e o , voice, and
data 4 j

H

As the market leader in ' P video management solutions,
Verint should be on the short list of every enterprise buyer.
— Frost & Sullivan

Government and industry recognize the value of
timely security and business intelligence. They
collect vast amounts of information in an array
of enterprise systems — far more information
than they can rapidly assess and use.
Verint helps these organizations make sense of
the vast information they capture.
Verint solutions extract significant information
from voice, video, and data, bridging information gaps between enterprise systems and
applying sophisticated, integrated analytics to
distill actionable intelligence. Then, Verint solutions distribute this intelligence to the people
who need it, wherever and whenever they need
it, for timely and effective action.

In the business intelligence market, actionable
intelligence helps improve the performance of
customer touch points throughout the enter
prise for more efficient operations, more loyal
and satisfied customers, and more profitable
business outcomes.
Built on open, standards-based architectures,
Verint solutions are engineered for scalability,
rapid deployment, and ease o f use in global
operations and complex environments.
These intelligent enterprise platforms help
organizations maximize their investments and
resources, while harnessing powerful new technologies t o prevent terrorism a n d crime,
improve performance, and build competitive
advantage.

In the security arena, this actionable intelligence helps government a n d commercial
organizations detect terrorism a n d crime,
secure critical infrastructure, and protect people
and assets.

Verint is among the best managed and best positioned
companies in our security universe.
—CE Unterberg, Towbin

Actionable Intelligence for a safer WorldTM

Verint N e t w o r k e d Video
Solutions

-

Vennt helps
government,
utilities, energy
providers, and
transportation
authorities
secure critical
Infrastru

Verint leads the industry in networked video solutions that help organizations protect people, property, and critical infrastructure. Nextiva'TM is a comprehensive, integrated portfolio o f networked video
solutions designed t o rapidly detect potential
threats, improve emergency event management,
reduce liability and loss, and increase operational
efficiency.
Nextiva captures video, audio, and data from virtually any location and security or business system,
applies powerful analytics t o detect significant
events, and delivers this intelligence to the appropriate personnel for rapid, effective action.
Nextiva simplifies management of large, geographically-distributed video operations with intelligent
video distribution; robust video management software; system-wide monitoring and diagnostics;
wireless and wireline a n a l y t i c s
devices that enable the capture, networking, and
analysis of video from indoor and outdoor locations;
and built-in mass export, video authentication, and
investigation management capabilities designed to
make investigations more productive.

Verint helps law
enforcement and
government
agencies gather
intelligence and
collect evidence
for prosecution.

I

Nextiva solutions are also available to address the
needs of specific market sectors, including mass
transit, critical infrastructure, retail, and banking.

Verint Communications
Interception solutions
Verint Communications Interception solutions help
government and law enforcement agencies neutralize threats from criminals and terrorists and help
service providers comply with government mandates on electronic surveillance.
VANTAGETM and RELIANTTM capture and detect significant information in massive volumes of voice and
data. Verint's integrated X
mines communications content to identify speakers,
languages, and locations and assess the chain of
communications. Correlating communications content and analyses with pertinent information from

Verint helps
retailers red
shrinkage an
inefficiency and
Improve the shopper
experience.

other sources — police reports, financial records,
Internet activity, etc. — Verint Communications
Interception Solutions provide government and law
enforcement agencies with a more comprehensive
view of important activity, so that they can rapidly
identify potential threats and establish evidence for
prosecution.

Actionable Intelligence f o r a s m a r t e r Enterprise !"

#

Verint Contact
Center Solutions

Vednt helps
organizations
Improve performance
company wide, in
every department
that touches their
customers.

Verint helps government and industry
provide a safe environment for visitors
and staff.

Verint Contact Center Solutions help organizations
improve business performance by aligning all customer touch points — from the front lines to the back
office — with market needs and enterprise goals.
ULTRATM is a robust contact center recording and
analytics platform that captures customer interactions, plus data from agent desktop applications,
post-call customer surveys, and #$I, CRM, and other
enterprise systems. The ULTRA %n&l'ti(s' Suite
detects significant trends and relationships in this
information, from the root cause of agent quality and
productivity metrics t o the relationship between
Products/services and customer perceptions or business outcomes. And ULTRA's Web-based desktop
portal and intelligent, enterprise-wide routing o f
recordings and analyses extend the benefits of this
intelligence to customer touch points company wide.
ULTRA redefines quality as an enterprise initiative
and helps organizations use the intelligence in their
customer contacts to increase operational efficiency,
improve regulatory compliance, reduce liability and
loss, and optimize the processes that shape customer satisfaction, loyalty, and value.

Verint Enterprise
Performance solutions
Vennt helps
N

e
-

n
s

- s e c u r i t y and
h a n effectiveness
c e the
of mass transit
y s t e m s .

STAR-GATE" helps communications and Internet
service providers access, administer, and deliver
intercepted communications and historical data
records in compliance with international standards
and government mandates. Verint solutions are !"5I
!"
and CALEA compliant and work with virtually any
type of network, content, application, or service.

Verint )*us+"
+" Solutions helps service-intensive
enterprises improve performance and reduce operational costs in their contact centers and back office
processing areas.
Opus Solutions provides a unique blend of technology and services that delivers strong impact and
guaranteed results for their customers, The Opus
Suite analyzes data collected across the enterprise
and identifies areas for improvement. Combined
with expert services, including process optimization
and performance training, Verint Opus Solutions
provides a foundation for continuous performance
improvement and helps organizations enhance both
operational efficiency and customer experience.

.

.

•

Verint is c i t t e d to meeting
44•our custome 1
' changing needs
• w i t h innovative solutions and
superior re ' n on investment.

Since 1994, Verint has been delivering actionable
intelligence solutions that help our customers
achieve their security and operational objectives.
Our industry-leading analytics deliver strategic,
real-world value by distilling the intelligence that
is mission-critical to government and industry —
whether detecting criminal networks, pinpointing
trespass, theft, or fraud, revealing performance
deficiencies, or surfacing market trends and perceptions.
These integrated analytics provide our customers
with a more complete, accurate, and timely view
of the factors that are integral to their success.
And they leverage Verint's powerful intelligence
distribution engines, designed to deliver intelligence wherever and whenever i t i s needed,
according to each organization's structure, operation, and goals.

We are committed t o meeting our customers'
changing needs and dedicate more than a third of
the 1500 Vehnt professionals around the globe to
ongoing product development and enhancement.
And we design our solutions to be flexible, scalable,
and IT friendly, to provide our customers with
cost-effective implementations and long-term
investment protection.
Today, over 1000 government and commercial
organizations in more than 50 countries use
Verint solutions to enhance their security and
business intelligence initiatives. These organizations consistently recognize Verint for innovation,
long-term business value, a n d outstanding
return on investment.

A Global Presence

WORLDWIDE HEAD QU!R"#R
VERINT SYSTEMS INC.
330 south Service Road
Melville, New York 11747
www.verint.com
Telephone. 631-962-9600

WORLDWIDE OFFICES
A $ E P % A S E U R O P E , M I D D L E #!5" & AFRICA
A
Columbia, MD T h e United Kingdom
A u s t r a l
Chantilly, VA D e n m a r k
C
h
i
n
a
Chicago, IL F r a n c e
H
o
n
g
Denver, CO G e r m a n y
I
n
d
i
a
Durango, CO I s r a e l
J
a
p
a
n
!1i"mi, FL
T
h
e
Netherlands
S
i
n
g
a
p
o
Montreal, QC S p a i n
Sweden

SIA PA C I F I C
i a
Kong

r

e

.

Verint has been a pioneer in the analytics space and its root cause
analytics solutions and approach are delivering strong value to
their enterprise customer base.
—Frost & Sullivan

Verint systems I n c .
330 South service Road
Melville, New York 11747
www.verint.com

