VIDEO INTELLIGENCE sOLUTiONsTM

tin

1\
TheIndustry's
Most Comprehensive
Video Portfolio .

AnInnovator
andLeader
in'PVideo
As a leader in networked video, Verint® provides a single source for turnkey
video surveillance solutions. From cameras, encoders and intelligent DVRs to
video management, viewing and analytics software, we help cover your
security operations.
Large,small, analog, lp, wired or wireless, Verint video solutions can help improve video networks.
Asthe trustedname in video surveillance, Verint solutions help protect investments,enhance security
andreduce operational costs. Multi-tiered support programs, expert services and the award-winning
Nextiva® video portfolio represent iust the beginning of ways Verinttransforms video into value.

Security solutions.
Companies across the globe
trust their vital video surveillance
operations to Verint video
solutions. This alone reinforces
that Verint offers not only the
products, but the confidence
you need, knowing that when you have Verint, you have
one less thing to worry obout
Nextiva, the industry's most comprehensive video portfolio,
features a flexible, open architecture for rapid deployment,
reliable operation and lower cost of ownership. Video

encoders, P cameras, and intelligent DVRs that capture
images from practically any stationary or mobile location,
industry-leading wired and wireless devices, and
unprecedented a n a l y t i c s
technology are iust part of the Nextiva suite of products.
With Verint, you will find an all-in-one video surveillance
solution that meets the needs of virtually any industry, in
any location. Retail. Banking. Transportation. Corporate
enterprises. Hospitals. Government buildings. Military
bases. Ports. Airports. Tunnels. Bridges. Where there's a
surveillance need, there's a Verint solution.

Nextiva Intelligent Edge Devices & Digital Video Recorders

Q

—

Nexiivo S i n g l e

Encodersand Decoders E n c o d e r s

C

a

Nexliva IP CamerasN ! " i v #

m

e

r

a

s

$

Nextwo

Transmitters.&idges

and Receivers

Nee,vonreiligenr
Nee,vo
nreiligenr
Mobile and
Networied Des

The Nextiva Networked Video Portfoiio.
Nextiva 'P Cameras. Nextivas powerful lp cameras stand up to
thechaHenges of indoor and outdoor video surveillance, and offer a
large selection of options to accommodate both your oblectives and
budget, Our 'P camera portfolio features low lux sensitivity, dual-stream
MPEGL1/MjPEGvideo, noise reduction, ssLbased authentication,
and performance speeds up to 4CIE/30 frames per second.
Industry-leading video encoding technology provides superior
imagery with optimal bandwidth utilization. Our a n a l y t i c s
Pcameras allow video to be analyzed at the point of capture,
eliminating the need to send video to centralized servers for analysis,
effectively reducing transport, server and storage requirements.
NexIiva lnteliigent Mobile and Networked DVRs. Nextivo's
DVRportfolio is built with embedded operating systems for enhanced
security and reliability. Industry-leading interfaces to business
and security systems enable banking, retail, hospitality, and other
organizations to tailor video recording and retrieval according to
the information these systems provide. And Nextiva enterpriseDVR
viewing and management software provides organizations with a
more complete understanding of their operations and more efficient,
centralized CCTV management.
Nextiva Single-Port and M u l t
for a wide range of single and multi-camera indoor applications,
our encoders and decoders deliver excellent imagery while using
dramatically less bandwidth than other products on the market today.

11 As the market leader in 'P
video management solutions,
Verint should be on the short list
of every enterprise buyer.
Frost & Sullivan

Nextiva single-port encoders are available for a variety of singlecamera applications with performance up to 4*I"/3
" ) frames per
"/3
second.These encoders provide optional dual-stream %$+)4/
%$+)4/%
4/%J
%J$+D
video with Power over Ethernet(POE)and on-board analytics.
Thedevices also include a R5-422/485 serial connection for
PTZsupport, one alarm input and one alarm output, 551 based
authentication, a noise reduction filter, bi-directional audio and an
extended temperature option.
Nextivo features powerful encoders for multi-camera, indoor
applications with performance up to 4*IF/3)
) frames per second.
Nextiva multi-port encoders provide dual-stream %$+G-4
G-4 video, a
Rs
alarm outputs, 5 5 1
Optional on-board video analytics and bi-directional audio are also
available. Compactly designed, these devices fit in a 1 U, 6
(15
Nextiva Wireless Transmitters, Bridges and Receivers. Unlike many
wireless devices in the marketplace today, Nextiva wireless devices
ore built on technologies optimized specifically for video. The result?
Enhanced reliability and superior performance.
Nextiva wireless edge devices can transmit video over licensefree 2.4 and 5 GHz wireless bands arid the 4.9 GHz US and
Canada public safety bands. 5 5 L
a rotating 1 2 8
of wireless transmissions. A unique Verint protocol overcomes standard
WiFi limitations, such as hidden node and quality of service problems.
Enclosed in weatherproof casing, NexHva wireless devices are
designed for outdoor use. City surveillance and infrastructure security,
including power plants, military installations, bridges, tunnels,
interstates and more, are ideal settings forour
forour superior transmitters,
bridges and receivers.

TheIndustry's Most ComprehE
TheIndustry's
Nextiva InteHigent
Edge Devices and DVRs
El Analog Cameras
Mega-Pixel Cameras
G 'P PTZ Cameras and
'P Mini-Dome

! 'P Cameras with Analytics
" & Q Embedded DV
Mobile DVRs

! Video Encoders
! Wireless Devices

!si
!
siv" Video Solution Portfolio
Integration
ta
taeway
External servers
External Data Storage
Transactional Data

Video
I
Management
Q

H
System Diagnostics

Integrated Video
Analytics Applications

l
Event Management
I
Virtual Matrix

Software Development Kits

Review Video Client
Investigation Management

Op
DVR Management
Vid!
DVR Viewing

I

Integration Gateway

i. .

Video Management

-

-

-

-

IntegtottortGateway Sateen Detail Examples

,tdec '!"#g$%n$%l Screen L)eiai/ i &"'(i$5

Meeting Needs. Achieving More.

Benefits That are Easy to see.

Nextiva Packaged Integrations and Software Interfaces. With
Nextiva, you con depIoy the video management, security and
business solutions that best suit your organizations budget
and needs. Our packaged integrations and software interfaces
facilitate interoperabiliiy with security, business and iT
infrastructures, access control, command and control, point of
sale, and other transaction-level systems. Nextiva also leverages
industry-standard networks, servers and storage, and supports
hybrid analog/digital environments — adding value to existing
CCTV investments, easing migration to ' P
and lowering cost of ownership.

Nextivo Video Management Software. Nextiva features a wide
array of powerful, integrated video management applications that
help your organization streamline video ond make sense of vast
volumes of video and data. 13y providing your security and IT
personnel a full suite of video management software, they can
easily manage large distributed areas, detect threats automatically,
improve video system uptime and streamline maintenance, and
reduce costs of ownership. The Nextiva portfolio of networked
'P video solutions helps companies eliminate many of the
deployment and operational issues associated with multiple
vendor solutions.

Unrivaled support

Nextiva Video Analytics. Nextiva Analytics enhance situational
awareness and help transform threat detection from a manual,
resource-intensive operation to an efficient, accurate, automated
process. With Nextiva Analytics, your security staff can focus
on deterring and managing threats rather than trying to detect
them. Not only will you benefit from greater control over routine
activities, but you can also eliminate redundant tasks. The Nextivo
video analytics portfolio includes a variety of automated video
analysis applications for retail, finance, campus facilities,
transportation and critical infrastructure.

Partnering in success
World-Class Service and Support At Verint, we ore dedicated
to the success of our partners and customers. To this end, we've
developed world-class customer support programs and service
offerings, staffed by Verint experts in all facets of networked
video deployment and use, Verint's Customer support Program
features live technical support, web-based resources, advanced
replacements and a host of on-site professional services. We work
closely with your security Personnel to optimize your solutions,
maximize your investment, and anticipate, avoid and address
operational roadblocks.
Partner Relationships. Verint's strong business partner ecosystem
continues to expand and is comprised of leading organizations
around the world. These respected companies are dedicated to
providing complementary products and services to Verint's
customers. Companies like EMC and PC ore iust a few of the
partners dedicated to delivering and implementing solutions that
combine best-in-class applications, services and hardware that
further enhance our awn portfolio. Verint is also pleased to partner
with a broad range of System Integrators that allow you to work
with the firms you know or select new partners specially skilled in
maximizing the return on your existing technology infrastructure.

Powerful, Embedded Video Analytics. Nextivo integrated,
on-board video analytics analyze images at the point of capture
and help eliminate the need to send all video to centralized servers
for analysis. This can significantly reduce network bandwidth,
storage and server requirements, while providing highly accurate
image analysis.
A wide array of Nextiva and third-party analytic applications are
available for use with Nextiva intelligent edge devices. These
analytics are fully integrated with other Nextiva solutions and
k software management applications. Video analytic rules can be
easily created and applied within the video management
environment, and alerts con be distributed almost anywhere
according to an organization's security policies.

Here. There. Everywhere.
Across Town. Around the World. With Nextiva's comprehensive
solutions, you can meet the chaHenges of virtually any environment
from single sites to city-wide operations. Network-intelligent video
distribution resilient system design, industry-leading wired and
wireless technology, and an open, IT-friendly architecture are lust
a few of the reasons thousands of organizations worldwide depend
on Verint's solutions to help manage their video infrastructure.

!

Verint is proud to contribute to the success of organizations of all
sizes, in all industries around the globe, including being the eyes
of one of the world's most active metropolitan areas — New York
City. Across New York City, Verint networked video solutions are
deployed by transportation, banking, retail, parts airports, utilities,
and other operations.

Critical Infrastructure
Nextiva helps secure some of the
nation's busiest seaports airports,
power plants, utilities, water
distribution facilities, military
installations, bridges and tunnels.

Transit
Bus and train yards, maintenance
facilities, platforms, stations, fixed
route and p a r a
can find Nextiva aboard many
transportation operations.

Banks and Finance
With 50000 installations, many
of the world's largest banks rely
onVerint video solutions to deliver
actionable intelligence that corporate
security and fraud investigators need.

Government
From office buildings and
homeland security operations
to city-wide applications,
Nextiva helps protect them all.

Retail
From the worlds largest
department stores to specially
retail outlets, Nextiva is a
valuable port of any inventory.

Commercial and Campuses
Educational campuses,
commercial operations and
hospitals are ideal For Nextiva's
leading-edge technology.

' - ,

" N

71. - .

-

-

-

t
.

-

-

.

1

'
© i i 2 , 0 0 4 5 :74Aala Data ©2009 TeIe Ati

‚-

Powering Actionable Intelligence?
V
of actionable inteliigence® solutions for an
optimized enterprise and a safer world.
More than 10,000 organizations in over
150 countries rely on Veririt solutions to perform
moreeffectively, build competitive advantage,
and enhance the security of people, facilities,
and infrastructure.
Asia Pacific Headquarters:
Verintsystems (Asia Pacific)Ltd
Suite 715-716, Level 7, Core F
Cyberport 3, 100 Cyberport Road
HongKong
Marketing .apac@veri ft. co
(852) 2797 5678
www.verinf.com
January 2009

•

Unauthorized use, duplication, or
modification of this document in whole or
in part without the written consent of Verint
systems Inc. is strictly prohibited. By providing
this document Verint systems Inc is not
making any representations regarding the
correctness or completeness of its contents
and reserves the right to alter this document at
any time without notice.
Features listed in this document are subfect
to change. Please contact Verint for current
product features and specifications.
All marks referenced herein with the ®
or!
or
!"symbol ore registered trademarks
or trodemorks of Verini Systems Inc. or its
subsidiaries. All rights reserved.
All other marks ore trademarks of their
respectiveOwners,
© 2009 Verint systems Inc. All Rights
Reserved Worldwide.

"

POWERING ACTIONABLE I ! " L L # $ N % $

N extiva
V
For Critical Infrastructure, Transit, Retail, and
Campus Environments
Nextive Analytics help organizations make
sense of vast amounts of security video and data,
generating actionable intelligence f o r better
decisions and faster, more effective action.
Thispowerful suite of integrated analytic applications automatically
pinpoints potential breaches and significant events and sends
video alerts to the appropriate people and agencies.
Nextiva Analytics enhance situational awareness and transform
threat detection from a manual, resource-intensive operation to on
efficient, accurate, automated process. With Nextivo Analytics,
security staff can focus on deterring and managing threats, rather
than scanning banks of video monitors trying to detect them.
Full integration with the Nextivo video management portfolio
effectively eliminates the operational issues associated with
standalone analytic products. And Nextiya a n a l y t i c s
edge devices make analytics Practical and cost-effective for
virtually every enterprise camera, delivering timely intelligence
with fewer transport, storage, and equipment requirements.

Plus, Nextiva Video Analytics are From Verint®, the

leader in networked video solutions worldwide.
l

o

r

Nextiva Analytics in Action

Real-TimeActionable Intelligence for Your Industry
Nextiva Analytics is a robust portfolio of integrated analytic applications
for enhancing security and operational effectiveness. Designed to address
the specific security requirements of critical infrastructure, transit, retail, and
enterprise campus environments, Nextiva Analytics feature:
Real-time intelligence for a proactive approach to threat deterrence
and management
Automated alert distribution for rapid, effective response
Powerful forensic capabilities for faster, more productive investigations

Busy International Airport
Nextiva Analytics help secure this molar
airport and the 70 million passengers that
movethrough it every year.

Analytics"At the Edge"
Analytics
Edge"for
for superior Accuracy, Scalability,
and Cost Effectiveness
Nextiva a n a l y t i c s
analytics to high-quality video in real time, eliminating the need to send all
video to centralized servers for analysis. Besides providing more accurate and
comprehensive analyses, this can greatly reduce your data transport and storage
requirements and significantly increase the number of camera inputs per server.
As a result, you can expand your analytic capabilities with less equipment and
lower costs.

Fortune 100 Big Box Retailer
Nadivo helps this retailer determine the
effectiveness of store locations, promotions,
and staffing by automatically capturing
and assessing variations in the number of
shoppers.

Nextiva Integration for Intelligent Alert Distribution and
Highly Effective Operation
Nextiva Analytics are fully integrated with all Nextiva vertical market and video
management solutions, for more rapid deployment and streamlined operation.
Video analytic rules con be easily created and rapidly applied directly within the
video management environment. Alerts can be inielligently distributed virtually
anywhere, according to the security policies your organization already has in
place. And operators and managers can view video alerts from Web browsers,
network-connected PCs, and video walls — just as they would any other video.

F R ! 5 "

Major Cargo and Passenger seaport
Nextiva Analytics enhance security policy
enforcement in cargo areas and guard
expansive land and water perimeters.

&

s U L L I V A N

arth American Video Analytics
ustomer Value Enhancement Award

I

—

Integrated Analytic Applications for Critical lnfrastructui
Perimeter Intrusion

Loitering

Helpsorganizationssecure
expansive Perimeters,
while reducing staff
requirements and the
need for manual patrols

Automatically detects people
or vehicles remaining in on
area for of extended period

Secure Area
Monitoring
Pinpoints p e o p l e o r

vehicles moving through
sensitive areas, including
demarcated hallways and
rooms and areas without
physical boundaries, such
asspace in buildings and
outdoors

Camera Tampering
Automatically detects camera tampering or shifting, for more rapid correpion of
camera operation problems that occur either intentionally or inadvertently, with
minimal interruption of surveillance activities

of time, for a more proactive,

effective approach t o
suspiciousactivity

Unattended Obiects
(1eft
(1eftBaggage)
Automatically pinpoints
baggage a n d other
oblects l e f t behind,
enabling security personnel

to rapidly detect and
address potentially threatening situations

Mosaic Virtual View
Creates a seamless view across multiple cameras,

awareness and security across large areas and all
track suspicious people and vehicles more easily an

Nextivo Analytics enhance situationalawareness to deter terrorism
expedite investigations, and increase operati

e,Transit, Retail, and Campus Environments
mob

Visitor/Shopper
Counting

City Monitoring
Helps secure city and
town centers by pinpointing
suspicious activity to deter
,andalism and other crime

Delivers critical insights
aboutoperational efficiency,
staffing levels, and the
effectiveness of marketing
activities, f o r a more
proactive approach t o
visitor satisfaction a n d
customer value

Named one of the
top 50 security
companies in the

world by
A&5 Magazine

PointOFsale
(P05) Analysis

Wrong Direction and
Excessive speed

Integrates receipt d a b ,
transaction exceptions, and
video to help LossPrevention
professionals rapidly deject
theft error, and Fraud

Automatically detects people
or vehicles moving in the
wrong direction o r a t
excessive speeds, promoting
a more Proactive approach
to threat identification and
management

tit

EquipmentRemoval
honcing situational
ing security staff to
amlessly

Automatically detects when on obiecihas been removed from an area uncle(
surveillance, enhancing asset protectidn initiatives and increasing the chance of
recovery by enabling theft to be more quickly identified

and crime, improve response times,
nal efficiency.

Nextiva Video Analytics Transform Video Into Value
-! H

-

-

, .. k

Integrated Analytic Rules
Definition
Security administrators u s e t h e
intuitive Nextiva Analytics Rule
Builder t o create video analysis
rules in line with your o r g
security policies,

—
-

.

_

'

.

.

.

.

*

•

-

-

,

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Seamless interaction with
!"Nextiva Solutions
The Nextiva Inte]IiView' Analytics Processor
processes these rules and pushes them to
your Nextiva Intelligent Edge Devices.

1

Analytics At the Edge
Nextiva analytics-embecidecl encoders and ‚P cameras
capture and analyze video according to the rules your
organization has defined, and send video with alerts to
the Nextiva InteIliView Analytics Processor.

Intelligent Alarm Distribution Anywhere Within
the Video Management Environment
Next
network operations centers, emergency communications
sy5tems, security personnel, law enforcement agencies
—virtually anywhere that your security policies direct.

Immediately View Alerts via a Unified,
Rich User Interface
Using Nextiva Enterprise Review, authorized personnel
can view analytic alerts, event video, and data
from a single networked or Internet-connected PC —
eliminating the need to monitor separate video and
analytics consoles.
—

--

Which Nextiva Analytics Package is Right For You?
Nextiva Analytics are designed to address specific industry challenges,
goals, and operational environments. Available applications include:

Infrastructure

[

Left Baggage
Objects Removed
Tailgating
Scene stitching
Camera Tampering
City Monitoring

Transit
Perimeter/Tunnel intrusion
Parking Lot Security
Wrong Direction Detection
Unattended Objects
People Counting

Campus Environments

Retail

Loitering
Secure Area Monitoring
Equipment Removal
Tailgating
Speed Analysis

POSAnalysis
Fraud Detection
CustomerAssistance
Shopper Counting
Parking Lot Security

The Nextiva Portfolio of Video Solutions
Nextiva is an integrated Portfolio of networked video solutions for
enhancing security and operational effectiveness. Nextiva enterprise
and vertical market solutions address the needs of a wide range of
industries, from banking and critical infrastructure to retail and mass
transit. Nextiva wireline and wireless edge devices and embedded DVRs
capture images from virtually any stationary or mobile location. Nextivas
advanced analytics rapidly detect events in vast amounts of video and
enterprise data. And Nextivas robust video management software,
intelligent video distribution and system-wide monitoring kind diagnostics
simplify management of large, geographically-distributed operations.
Open, standards based, and IT friendly, Nextivo solutions provide
superior system availability, interoperability, and value.

Verint.
PoweringActionable Intel li!"n
!"n#"
!"
n#".
Verini Systems Inc. is a leading global
provider of analytic software-based
solutions for security and business
intelligence. Verint solutions help
organizations make sense of the vast
voice, video, and data available to
them, transforming this information
into actionable intelligence f o r
better decisions and highly effective
performance.
Since 1994, Verini has been committed to
developing innovative solutions that help
global organizations achieve their most
important objectives. Today, organizations
in over 50 countries use Verint solutions
to enhance security, boost operational
efficiency, and fuel profitability.
Asia Pacific Headquarters:
Verint Systems (Asia Pacific) Ltd
Suite 715- 716 Level 7, Core F
Cyberporf 3 100 Cyberport Road
Hong Kong
Marketing.apac@verint.com
(852) 2797 5678
www.verint.com
February 2007
YINIXA010207U

By providing this document, Verinl Systems Inc.
is not making any !"#$"
!"#$"ss"
s"nt%
nt%tt9
%tt9!!s
!!s regarding the
correctness or completeness of its contents and
reserves the right to otter this document at any time
without notice.
All marks referenced herein with the ® or &'
symbol are registered trademarks or trademarks
ofVerint Systems Inc. or its subsidiaries. A l l rights
ofVerint
reserved. A l l other marks are trademarks of their
respective owners.
@ 2007 Verinl Systems Inc. All rights reserved

!R1N "

POWERING ACTIONABLE INTELLIGENCE'

N e
TheIndustry's Most Comprehensive
Video Portfolio for Enhancing security
and Performance
N!"tiv
!"tiv#
!"tiv
tiv#t
#t is a powerful, integrated portfolio of
networked video solutions for enhancing security
and operational effectiveness.
Nextiva enterprise and vertical market solutions meet the needs of
a wide range of industries, from corporate enterprise and critical
infrastructure to retail and mass transit.
Nextiva video encoders, decoders, and 'P cameras capture
images from virtually any stationary or mobile location, with the
industrys leading wired and wireless, a n a l y t i c s
device technology
Nextiva embedded and mobileDVRsore designed for thedemands
of real-world applications, from ATM kiosks and convenience
stores to the on-board environments of buses and trains.
Nextivas embedded analytics rapidly detect events in vast
amounts of video and data, making analytics practical for virtually
every enterprise camera. And Nextivas robust video management
software, Intelligent video distribution, and system-wide monitoring
and diagnostics simplify management of large, geographicallydistributed operations.
Open, standards based, and IT friendly, Nextiva solutions protect
your existing video investments and provide superior system
availability, interoperability, and value.
Plus,Nextiva isFromVerint®, the leader in networked video security
solutions worldwide.

Intelligent Encoders, lp Cameras, and DVRs
Nextiva features the industry's most comprehensive line of intelligent edge devices for capturing high-quality
images indoors and outdoors, day or night, virtually anywhere that impacts security and performance.
Powerful on-board anaiytics rapidly detect important events, while reducing the amount of video to transport
and store, making analytics practical for almost every enterprise camera.
Nextiva encoders and decoders deliver DC-quality, dual-stream video and feature up to 24 video
inputs, bi-directional audio, and noise reduction.
Nextiva wireless edge devices transmit D V D
license-free 2.4 and 5 GHz wireless bands and the 4.9 GHz us public safety band.
Nextiva lp cameras capture D V D
operation indoors and outdoors.
Nextiva mobile cameras, including the industry's first dual-stream, mobile ‚P camera, are specially built
to withstand the high vibration and temperature fluctuations of the mobile environment.
Nextiva mobile DVRs are designed for long life and low maintenance, delivering full-motion video from
up to 12 analog or digital cameras.
Nextiva embedded DVRs provide enterprise-class performance with a highly scalable and secure
embedded platform and powerful data and alarm interfaces.

v o

w

# 6
-

Sophisticated, Integrated Video Analytics
With Nextiva Analytics, staff can focus an managing threats and eliminating operational inefficiency,

rather than scanning banks of video monitors trying to detect them.
oh/ Monitoring P e o p l e Counting
Loitering

Secure Area Monitoring

Tailgating

Piggybacking

Equipment Removed
Unattended Objects
Scene Stii!Iii
Iii"
"g

Camera Tampering
POSAnalysis
Fraud Detection

Left Baggage
Speed Analysis

Visitor/Shopper
Counting

Wrong Direction
Detection

Parking Lot Security

Customer in Need of
Perimeter/Tunnel
Intrusion A s s i s t a n c e

Real-World Solutions for Superior Business Value

Nextiva Enterprise

Nextiva Critical
Infrastructure

Nexliva Transit
-"

l-ielp organizations
in virtually every
industry enhance
the security of their
facilities and the
-ffertiveneSS of
Iaperutions

Create a
safer transit
environment,
reduce vandalism
and fake claims,
increase ridership
and improve
operational
efficiency

Nextiva Retail
(-

•
Protectthe
physical systems
and facilities that
are critical to
ne notions well
being — from

Reduce
shrinkage, error
liability, ono

fraud increase
efficiency,
and improve
profitability for
ietailers of any
size

government

installations
to utilities
and Interstate
transportation
networks

-

Nextiva Financial
Create a more
secure and
efficient banking
environmenl,
educe liability
and baud, and
build evidence for
addressing claims

-]

Powerful Video Management Software
Nextiva video management software helps you make sense of vast volumes of video and
data for faster, more effective action.
Nextiva "#$lth%h#&kk automated system-wide health monitoring and diagnostics
Nextiva IntelliFlow policy-based event notification, video distribution, and process
activation
Nextiva IntelliStrearn
matrix)
Nextiva Review/WebReview
browser
Nextivo Investigation Management for collecting case-related video and data in a
searchable database
Nextivo Transit Fleet Manager
devices
Nextiva yid-Center enterprise DVR viewing for embedded DVR applications
Nextiva Op-Center ' enterprise DVR management and automated health monitoring for
embedded DVR applications

•

I
!

Actionable Intelligence on an IT-Friendly Platform
Protects Investments and Streamlines iP Migration
Designed for long-term investment protection. Nextivo features a flexible,
open architedure for rapid deployment, reliable operation, and tower cost
of ownership. Nextivo solutions leverage your industry-standard network,
servers, and storage and support hybrid analog/digital environments, adding
value to your existing CCTV solutions and easing migration to IF-based video
operations.

I

. ;

Ve rift.
Powering Actionable Intelligence?
Vet irit Systems inc. is a leading global
provider of analytic software-based
solutions for enterprise optimization
and security. Verint solutions help
organizations make sense of the vast
voice, video, and data available to
them, transforming this information

into actionable intelligence'"f o r
Enhances Interoperability with integrations and SDKs
Nextiva pre-built integrations and SDKs facilitate interoperability with your
security, business, and IT infrastructure. Using information from these enterprise
systems, Nextiva can trigger actions according to your security policies and
provide a level of situational awareness and organizational effectiveness that
is far greater than can be achieved by any of these systems atone.
Scales to Operations of Any size
Nextiva enables you to deploy thousands of cameras in any number of
locations and supports as many servers and storage devices as needed.
Nextiva's intelligent, analytic-ready edge devices let you expand your analytic
capabilities without adding costly servers. And Nextiva Control Center
simplifies system administration, with a secure and intuitive management
portal from which to configure and manage every facet of your physical
security operation.
With network-intelligent video distribution, resilient system design, industryleading wired and wireless technology, and an open, IT-friendly architecture,
Nextiva addresses the challenges of virtually any environment, from singlesite locations to global operations.
World-Class service and Long-Term Value
The Nextiva Customer support Program helps your organization utilize
Nextiva to its full potential. The program features live, web-based, and onsite technical support, major software upgrades, advanced replacements,
installation and project management services, and hardware and software
warranties. Staffed by experts in IF video development and support, the threetier Nextiva Customer Support Program lets you select the support plan that
best suits your budget and objectives.

Recipient of the 2006 North
American Video Analytics Customer
Value Enhancement Award and the
2007 Market Leadership Award in
the North American Encoder and
Video server Market

better decisions and highly effective
performance.
Since 1994, Verint has been committed
to developing innovative solutions that
help global organizations achieve
their most important objectives. Today,
organizations in over 100 countries
use Verint solutions to enhance security,
boast operational efficiency, and fuel
profitability.
Asia Pacific Headquarters:Verint systems (Asia Pacific) Ltd
Suite 7 1 5 - 716, Level 7, Core F
Cyberport 3, 100 Cyberport Road
Hong Kong
Marketing.apac@verint.com
(852) 2797 5678
www.verint.com

I

August 2007
VINXPO1 0807U

Unauthorized use, duplication, or modification of

thisdocument in whole or in part without the written
thisdocument
consent 01 Verint systems Inc. is strictly prohibited.
By providing this document, Verint Systems Inc

is not making any representations regarding the

correctness or completeness o f its contents and

reserves the right to alter this document at any time
without notice,

All marks referenced herein with the ® or !"
symbol are registered trademarks or trademarks
of Veririt Systems Inc. or its subsidiaries. All rights
reserved. All other marks are trademarks of their

respective owners.
@2007 Verint Systems Inc. All Rights Reserved
l i { o s T

&

L J L L I $ % N

Worldwide.

I

I

N extiva
Nextiva 81800e series Video Encoder
Featuring 1-1264 Technology
The Nextiva ® SlBOOe Series from V'(i)tVid'o Intelligence solutions
is comprised of enterprise-class, *.264-')+,l'd video encoders
designed for large-scale, geographically distributed operations.
These powerful video encoders offer a comprehensive feature set
that includes full frame rate with high resolution video on all ports and
external power supplies.
Superior Performance with !•264 Technology

At A Glance:
Exceptional performance: 8

The Nextiva 51800e Series — which includes the S1808e and 8181 -'
encoders — delivers high-resolution images for both recording and live
video viewing. Both support *264 and !"#G-4 video up to 401E/30
frames per second on all 8 or 16 ports. By incorporating industry-

encoders w i t h triple streaming I-1.264 and !"#$-4 video

leading *.264 video encoding technology, the 81800e series offers

up to 401E/30flos providing maximum v i d e o quality f o r

excellent image clarity — while reducing use of network bandwidth

minimum d a t a transfer a n d storage

and storage by up to 50 percent. The encoders also deliver greater

Environmentally friendly design: External ENERGY
STAR ® qualified p o w e r supply Provides lowest power
consumption
Integrated with Nextiva Video Management software
Seamless integration with IT infrastructure: Featunng
SN!P protocol a n d dual LAN interfaces
Superior reliability: Built with an embedded U n u x
operating s y s t e m

flexibility by providing organizations with the option to view video at
higher resolutions without increasing storage requirements. Able to
simultaneously compress images at different rates and resolutions, the
S1808e can support up to 8 analog video cameras, while the S1816e
can support up to 16. Both feature on-board motion detection, so that
relevant data may be transmitted over the network, helping to improve
system performance.
Ideal for Large-scale Video Operations; Enables Lower
Cost of Ownership
Built on over a decade Of video solution deployments, the Nextiva
81800c Series provides the reliability, scalability, and flexibility that
large-scale operations require. They are designed to deliver the lowest
total cost of ownership (TCO), including greater reliability, bit rate and
storage consumption, ease of installation and maintenance, less power
requirements and seamless integration with Nexthia. The 81 800e Series
also features SNMP and dual LAN support for ease of integration with IT
infrastructure and an intuitive Web browser interface accessible through
Nextiva. These solutions are built on an embedded Unux operating
system to provide a scalable, open platform for superior security and
reliability.
Energy Efficient, Environmentally and User Friendly
Further, the Next iva 81 800' Series features an ENERGY S I A R
qualified external power supply for a longer life span, making it the
highly efficient, environmentally safe, and energy-saving choice. With a
compact design, the video encoders are built for easy installation and
operation in virtually any environment. RoH5 compliant and certified for

VIDEO INTELLIGENCE 5$LLJ%I$N&

safety and EM' standards such as U
encoders are environmentally friendly.

Technical specifications
Nextiva S1808e
Video
• Input

Nextiva 51816e

8 composites, 1 Vpp into 75 ohms
NTSC/PAL, BNC female

16 composites. 1 Vpp into 75 ohms
NI

• Triple Stream

2 X !.264 and 1 X "#$G-4
G-4 streams

• Performance

4CIF/30 Ids, 401E/15 fps, 201E/15 fps on
all channels simultaneously

4CIF/30 tps, 4%I&/l5'(s, 01E/15 Ids on
all channels simultaneously

• Compression

!.264
.264 Main Profile ("#)) and "#$G-4
G-4 Simple Profile (SP)

• Resolution

Scalable from CIF (352 X 240 pixels for NISC; 352 X 288 pixels for PAL) to 4CIF
format (704 X 480 pixels for NISC: 704 X 576 pixels for PAL)

• Bandwidth

Each stream configuration from 30)b(s to 6Mbps

• Maximum Latency

115msec

About Vennt Video
Intelligence solutions
V3dnt
dnt Video Intelligence solutions
is the worldwide leader in networked
video, a 'single source" for virtually
every facet of video surveillance
operations: from cameras,
encoders, and intelligent DVRs to
video management, viewing, and
analytics software.

Network
• Interface 1

RJ-45, Ethernet 10/100/1000 Base

• Interface 2

RJ-45, Ethernet 10/100/1000 Base

• Protocols

Transport: RTP/IP, UDP/IP, TCP/IP, or multicast 'P
Others: DNS, NTP, *N"# vi/v2c/v3 (("
"I+-li), !,#
!,#, HnPs, and DHCP client

• security

Verint. Powering
Actionable Intelligence.

SSL

• Electrical

Port 1: RS-232 (max. 230)0(s) pluggable screw-terminal strip
Port 2: RS-422/485 2/4 wires (max. 230)0(s) pluggable screw-terminal strip

• Operating Mode

Transparent serial port supporting any asynchronous serial protocol

• USB

1U3B host port (for maintenance)

Alarm
• Inputs

8 dry contacts

16 dry contacts

Output: 2 relay contacts (48V AC/DC at
500 mA max.)

Output: 4 relay contacts (48V AC/DC at
500 mA max.)

12V DC -i-/- 10%
max. 20W

12V DC +/ 10%
max. 25W

Power
• Input Voltage
• Power Consumption

1U Metal case with flange mount (black)

• Dimensions

171_X 6.6W 1 1.7! in. (430L X 167.68W X 42.6! mm)

• Weight

4.0 lb (1.8Kg)

'Operating Temperature

32

'Humidity

95% non-condensing at 131°F (55'C)

• Firmware

Embedded L i n u x

Certification and Regulation
• USA

!"#k$ti%g."&"'v$#int'(m
(852) 2797 5678
Asia Pacific Headquarters
Vennt Systems (Asia Pacific) Ltd
Suite 715 - 716, Level 7, Core F
Hong Kong

Nextiva, SConfigurator, Web browser interface and via the serial port
Flash memory for upgrade of application firmware over the network; available
through Nextiva Control Center and SConfigurator
ROFIS compliant

Models
• 81808e
• 8181 23

8
16

Warranty

‚/

www.vennt.com

UL, FCC Part 15 (Subpart +, Class A)
ICES03 class A
CE marking (EN55022, EN55024)

• P0P10-2

solutions to perform more effectively,
build competitive advantage, and

Cyberport 3. 100 Cyberport Road

• Canada
• Europe

Optional Accessories
• PS1260
• PS1281

More than 10000 organizations
in over 150 countries rely on Verint

enhance the security of people,
facilities, and infrastructure.

Physical
• Enclosure

Management
• Configuration
• Firmware Upgrade

Provider of Actionable Intelligence
solutions for an optimized
enterprise and a safer world.

Serial and u s / Ports

• Outputs

Verint® systems Inc. is a leading

By Providing this document. Vennt systems
Inc. is not making any representations
regarding the correctness or completeness
01 its contents and reserves the right to alter
this document at any time without notice.
Features listed in this document are sutlect
to changer Please contact Vennt for
current proouct features and specitcetioris.
Ail marks referenced herein with the

ENERGY STAR qualified power supply for 51800e Series
ENERGY STAR qualified 1 9
Series devices
19
devices
1-year limited warranty covering parts and labor (for the Asia Pacific). Contact your
Vennt representative for warranty details for other regions.

ENERGY sTAR

Unauthorized use, duplication, or
rnocification of this document in whole
or in part without the written consent of
Vennt systems Inc. is strictly prohibited.

!

Powered by an
ENERGY
ENERGYSTAR
qualified adapter
for a better
environment

® or '" symbol are registered trademarks
or trademarks of Vennt Systems Inc or
its subsidiaries, At rights reserved.
All other marks are trademarks of their
respective owners.
6 2009 Veunt systems Inc.
At Rights Reserved Worldwide.
September 2009

Nextiva
EdgeVR 100/200 Network Video
Recorder (Analog/IP)
N%*tiv+
Recorder designed for large-scale, geographically distributed
operations. Available with hybrid 'P/analOg capabilities, this true 'P
video solution more readily scales to lp video operations than analogbased, hybrid NVR5, for greater long-term value and lower migration
costs. And with all of the features that you've come to expect in a
VerinteNetwork Video Recorder — high-quality imagery, optimized
bandwidth utilization, a secure embedded operating system, and

At A Glance:

industry-leading system interlaces — EdgeVR delivers superior
performance and unsurpassed value
Hybrid System and superior I-1264 Performance

A high-performance, ' P
video operations and more cost-effective 'P video migration

EdgeVA delivers high-resolution images for both recording and
live video viewing. Built with an innovative and powerful - 2 6 4

Eases 'P video migration: l P

video compression engine, EdgeVR provides superior video quality

option and support for up to 32 cameras (includes analog. lp
and megapixel cameras)

requirements. Available with a hybrid analog/IP video option, this

at significantly lower bit rates, reducing storage and bandwidth

Superior video quality: State-of-the-art !.264 video

intelligent NVR can support up to 32 ‚P and analog video cameras.

compression delivers up to 480 fps of recorded video or up to
960 fps with external 'P video input

And EdgeVR is fully integrated with Verint's industry-leading Nextiva

Flexible storage options: RAI01. removable HDD, up to 8 "#

so it can be easily incorporated in almost any security surveillance

of space, and multiple recording schedules
Industry-leading interfaces: ATM, Point-of-sale, teller, alarm,
and other business and security systems
Superior reliability:A Linux embedded operating system and
mature application firmware

multi-port video encoders, wireless edge devices, and 'P cameras.
system.
Ideal for Large-Scale Video Operations
Built on Verint expertise from more than 70,000 DVR implementations,
EdgeVR provides the reliability, scalability. and flexibility that largescale operations need. EdgeVR features RA01 support, an embedded

Ease of use:Operates with Nextiva Vid$%&t%'() for

operating system far superior security, redundancy, and reliability.

investigation/monitoring and with Nextiva Op-Centel-TM for
centralized NVR management

This high-performance NVR also provides powerful programming

Seamless integration: Easily migrate platform into existing
NetDVR I or NetDVR IInfrastructure
Leverages industry-leading Nextiva edge devices: Fully
integrated with Nextiva encoders, wireless devices, and
P cameras

capabilities, flexible storage options, and the ability to set different
resolutions, frame rates, and image retention for general surveillance,
motion detection, transactions, and alarms.
EdgeVR supports VGA, composite or W I outputs, with one monitor
used for quad or full-screen display and the other for full-screen
sequencing. Users can search for and view video by time, date,
transaction, or event. And day-at-a-glance, week-at-a-glance, and
motion-based searches help users quickly pinpoint video of interest.
EdgeVR operated with Nextiva Op-Center for centralized, enterprisewide NVR management and V i d
NVR viewing.

!R"N#
VIDEO INTELLIGENCE soLuTioNs -

Technical specifications
Nextiva !dg"V#-200

Nextiva EdgeVR-1 00
Video
• Video Input ('P/Analog)

16 cameras

32 cameras

• Analog Input N I

0, 4 orB; HNC, 1 Vpp, configurable 75
ohms, or high impedance

0, 8 or 16; BNC, 1 Vpp, configurable 75
ohms, or high impedance

• 'P Input support

0-16

0-32

• Frame Rates

480 fps (Tote' Recording)
Up to 30 fps per input

960 fps (Total Recording)
Up to 30 fps per input

• Resolution
• Compression (Recording)

!IF"
IF"2
IF"
"2!I#\4
# !IF\1$%\2
#\4
$% $%
$%\2
&.264
.264 and $%#G-4
G-4 (network input only)
BJ-45, Ethernet 10/100/1000 Base

• Interlace 2

Optional RJ-45, Ethernet 10/100/1000
Base

\twine Video Intelligence solutions
is the worldwide leader in networked
video, a single source" for virtually
every facet of video surveillance
operations: from cameras,
encoders, and intelligent DVRs to
video management, viewing, and
analytics software.

Network

• Interface 1

About Verint Video
Intelligence solutions

RJ-45, Ethernet 10/100/1000 Base

ATM, POS, teller, alarm systems and SR-8 data interface device

Verint. Powering
Actionable Intelligence:

••Bandwidth Management

Programmable packet throttling

Verint Systems Inc. is a leading

storage
• Hard Drives

Up to 2 removable hard drives (3.5in)

Up to 4 removable hard drives (3.5in)

provider of Actionable lntelligencrf
solutions for an optimized

• Disk space

500GB to 4'(

5000B to 8TB

enterprise and a safer world.

• RAID

RAID 1 option

• DVD/USB

Local or remotely managed video export on USE key or DVD-RW option

Data Integration

Monitors
• Monitor 1
• Monitor 2

VGA connector, up to 1280x1024 analog RGB
Configuration, live or playback (single or quad view)

More than 10,000 organizations
in over 150 countries rely on Vennt
solutions to perform more effectrvely,
build competitive advantage, and
enhance the security of people,
facilities, and infrastructure.

BNC connector, 1 Vpp into 75 ohms
NI

BNC connector, 1 Vpp into 75 ohms
(NTSC/PAL)
Or (software configurable): DVI
connector, up to 1280x1024 digital RGB

Alarm
• Inputs/Outputs

4 inputs/1 relay output

16 inputs/1 relay output

• Program
• File Management

Event
Independent storage settings for alarms; color-coded file and search structures

Marketing.apac@verint.com

Key locked access to hard drives and front panel controls
Camera select, configuration, live view, etc.
All camera status LED, alarm, recording, etc.
Embedded L i n u x
cow

Asia Pacific Headquarters

' R.N'
'(852) 2797 5678

General
• Physical Security

• Front Panel
• LED
• Firmware

• Input

115/240V 50/6)&L
L AC; 1.5 amps

• Output

12V DC; 500mA for SR data device option

www.vennt.com

Physical
• Enclosure

2U Metal chassis: rack mountable

3L) Metal chassis: rack mountable

• Dimensions

15in X 17in X 3,5 in (43cm X 38cm X 9cm)

15in X 17in X 5.25 in (43cm X 38cm X
13cm)

• Weight

max of 21 lbs (9.5 kg)

max of 29 lbs (13 kg)

• Operating Temperature

32° to 122° F (0°

Video Management

• Access
• Programmability
• Functionality
• %'2 support

Cyberport 3
Hong Kong

Power

• Interface/Saftware
• search

W r i t Systems (Asia Pacific) Ltd
Suite 715 - 716, Level 7, Core F

Nextiva yid-Center client user interlace included
Find images and transactions by time, time interval (at-a-glance views), date,
number, transaction, or event
Remote access to live and recorded video, system setup, and internal DVR logs for
system, operational, and configuration information
Programmable events and scheduling; settings for general, motion, and eventrecording
Siniulta*+,us recording and live viewing, event storage, or image retrieval
Specific PTZ devices via serial communications port

World-Class service and support
At W r i t , we are dedicated to the success of our partners and customers. To this end, we've developed
world-class customer support programs and service offerings, staffed by Verint experts in all facets of
networked video deployment and use, Verint's Customer support Program features live technical support,
web-based resources, advanced replacements and a host of on-site professional services.

Unauthorized use. duplication, or mod'
fication of this document in whole or in
Pan without the written consent of Veriot
Systems Inc. is strictly p r o o l b
By provdng this docunent, Ve,nnt systems
Inc. is not making any representations
regarding tiw correctness or completeness
of its contents and reserves the right to alter
the document at any time without *,
*,tt/+
/+.
Features hood in the document are sutject
to change. Reese contact Vennt for current
product features and s0+1ifl12'/ns.
Al marks referenced herein with the ® or
'$ symbol are registered trademarks or
trademarks of Verint systems Inc. or it
subodanes. All rights reserved. PJ other
marks are trademarks Of their respective
owners

0 2009 Vennt Systems Inc.
All Rights Reserved Worldwide,
July 2009

POWERING ACTIONABLE I N T E W G E N C E •

Nextiva Critical Infrastructure
N!"tiv
!"tiv#
!"tiv
tiv# Critical Infrastructure is an enterprise-class
video management platform designed to protect the
physical systems and facilities that are integral to the
well-being of the nation, its citizens, and its economy.
With network-intelligent video distribution, resilient
system design, i n d u s t r y
and an open, IT-friendly architecture, Nextiva addresses
the challenges of diverse, geographically-distributed
operations — from government installations and
interstate transportation networks to energy producers,
power grids, and water purification, treatment, and
distribution facilities.
Nextiva Critical Infrastructure transforms video into
value, delivering actionable intelligence for deterring
terrorism and crime and promoting a safe environment
for people and commerce.
And Nextiva i s from V!"int, the leader i n
networked video solutions worldwide.

Transforming Video into Value

1
Nextiva Critical Infrastructure makes
large-scale security initiatives more effective.
Nextiva is designed to integrate all security subsystems and sensors
into a single framework, with a single user interface, for protecting
large, geographically-distributed operations: water purification
and distribution facilities, utilities and power Plants, airports and
seaports, interstate transportation networks, government buildings,
military installations, and other critical infrastructure.
Nextiva features wireless encoders for capturing images along
expansive perimeters and other hard-to-wire locations; rich local,
remote, and Web-based video viewing; on-site or centralized
management of the entire video system; and automated, systemwide monitoring and diagnostics.
Nextiva Critical Infrastructure enhances
emergency event management and response.
Nextiva's advanced event management system and integration with
physical security subsystems provide a level of situational awareness
that is far greater than can be achieved by any of these systems alone.

Nextiva Critical lnfrastr
diverse, geographically

linit
1. Asensor detects a man walking Inside
an electric substation perimeter. . . . _ ! :
Nextiwa interfaces with the company's
alarm and access control systems
to sound an alarm in the company's
Control Center and ensure thpt all ;
substation doors are locked.

'1!

Integrating information from video and incident management,
emergency response, and other security systems, NextIva Critical
Infrastructure automatically detects potential threats and triggers
action sequences based on your security policies.
When an emergency occurs, Nextiva can automatically send
video and data t o network operations centers, emergency
communications systems, security personnel, government
agencies, and law enforcement for rapid response. Nextiva can
also initiate activity, such as sounding alarms or raising barriers,
based on the security policies your organization has in place.
And Nextiva's next-generation, integrated analytics free security
personnel from hours o f tedious video review, providing
timely intelligence about events of genuine Importance to your
organization.
Nextiva promotes rapid, effective action .. even for locations with
limited security or emergency management personnel on site.
Nextiva Critical Infrastructure expedites investigations
and facilitates cross-agency collaboration.
Nextiva provides built-in mass export and investigation management
capabilities for collecting video from any number of cameras and locations
andgathering case-related audio, video, and data in a searchabledatabase.
The Nextiva Forensic Analyzer rapidly zeroes in on past events,
unusual activity, and significant behavioral patterns in vast amour
of video. Using !D5
D5 fingerprinting to ensure video integrity, Nexbva
lets you easily share this video with law enforcement and other
agencies for investigation and corroboration.

".. Equipped with real-time information about the mt
and his location, local law enforcement responds
quickly to apprehend the intruder on the scene.

ucture is built to secure
-distributed operations.

m a

•
.

N

-

-

Y

A

.

.

i

- - . .
I

!

!

,

.

.
!

-

H

I

• ‚ '

•

. 2 . 1 t h r t i v a begins streaqing images t a hjgher
frame rate and resolution to the e ectrr
: •‚ company's Control Center !" mil away. Nextiva
simultaneously transmits the alarrh and video to
local I#$f'f%&'$m$(t and to the PDA of thtelectric
who is located at a
facility
&
side of the state

I ! '

I

•

!"• i .

1

provide highly reliable operation in extended temperature
environments and day-to-night use, with low lux sensitivity
for crisp images in even low lighting conditions. Nextiva
edge devices are available with on-board storage to retain
images in the event of network failure.
Nextiva Video Management
Software Applications
Nextiva Review provides flexible video viewing of live
and recorded video using a networked PC or handheld
device.
Nextiva W"
W"bR"vi
" "wT
"vi
"wT allows anytime/anywhere video
viewing, with proper authentication, using a standard Web
browser and Internet connection.
Nextiva Map displays an interactive visual representation
of facility layouts and camera locations, showing individual
camera views at a single click.

•

4.,

Nextiva Wireless and Wireline
Intelligent Edge Devices
Nextiva Intelligent Edge Devices capture high-quality images
virtually everywhere that impacts security and performance,
with sophisticated on-board analytics for accurately
detecting complex behaviors. Verint offers a wide array of
wireline and wireless encoders, decoders, and 'P cameras
for indoor and outdoor use. Nextiva outdoor devices

____,

•

A Comprehensive Portfolio of
Video Security Solutions

Nextiva # "
wide health monitoring and diagnostics, for superior
system availability and lower operational costs.

.

!

Nextiva I ) t " l l i 5 t
and recorded video to video walls, PDAs, and computers
across dispersed user locations, effectively replacing legacy
cross-point matrices.

Nextiva Analytics
4. Nextiva helps investigators
reconstruct the event by
gathering all case-related
video and data in a searchable
database. With this actionable

intelligence, the company
can develop evidence for
prosecution and work to prevent
similar incidents in the future.

Nextiva provides a comprehensive portfolio of powerful,
integrated analytic applications, including: real-time object
detection, identification, and classification; tripwires and
virtual perimeters; mosaic panoramic scene stitching;
detection of persons loitering, abandoned objects, blocked
exits, and camera tampering or shifting; and filters to
reduce false alarms.
Nextiva analytics can be applied in virtually all weather
conditions, day/night applications, and complex scenes.

Nextiva Critical l!f"#st
"# "u$t
"#st
$ %"& Actionable Intelligence for a safer W'"
$t
W'"ld
N
scalabiiity, reliability, and resiliency needed to protect critical infrastructure.
•Nextiva provides authorized security personnel and executives with visibility to
their geographically-distributed operations, any time and from anywhere, with
intelligent video distribution and automated process activation that reinforce
security policies and procedures.
Nextivas flexible, open, standards-based architecture and Application
Programming Interfaces (APIs) facilitate integration with virtually any type of
physical security systems, from immersive infrared cameras and conventional
intrusion systems to advanced video analytic applications.
Nextivas sophisticated storage management leverages enterprise storage
infrastructures and off-the-shelf storage solutions, with flexible retention and
the redundancy, fault tolerance, and continuous storage monitoring essential
to ensuring image availability. And Nextiva Control Center simplifies system
administration with a secure, easy-to-use management portal from which to
configure and manage every facet of your physical security operation.
Nextiva Critical infrastructure transforms video into value.

Verint. Powering Actionable Intelligence.
Verint Systems Inc. (NASDAQ: VRNT) is a leading global provider of analytic softwarebased solutions for communications interception, networked video, and business
intelligence. Verint solutions transform voice, video, and text into actionable
intelligence—timely, mission-critical insights for achieving strategic goals.
Since 1994 Verint has been committed to developing innovative solutions that
help our customers achieve their important objectives. Today, more than 1000
organizations in over 50 countries use Verints actionable intelligence solutions
to enhance security, boost operational efficiency, and fuel profitability.

By providing this document, Verint systems inc. is not making any representations regarding the correctness or completeness of its contents and reserves
the right to alter this document at any time without notice.
All marks referenced herein with the o r s y m b o l are registered trademarks or trademarks of Vei*rt Systems Inc. or its subsidiaries. All rights reserved.
All other marks are trademarks of their respective owners.
2006 Verint systems Inc. All rights reserved.

Email: (a"k&
k&ti
k&
&ti!g,a)a$
g,a a$
a$gv
$gv
gv&"
&"int.$om
$
$om
Phone: (852) 2797 5678
Or on the web at: www.verint.com
Suite 715 - 716, Level 7, Core F, Cyberport 3, 100 Cyberport Road Hong Kong
Maci, J(Xi,

VR!N "

#$WL%
#$WL
WL%NGACTiONABLE&"&
ACTiONABLEI&"&
I&"&.L
&"&.L'(&)(
.L'(&)(•
'(&)(•

V
VIDEO INTELLIGENCE sOLUTIONsTM

1\
TheIndustry's
Most Comprehensive
Video Portfolio

AnInnovator
andLeader
inIPVideo
As a leader in networked video, Verint® provides a single source fOr turnkey
Video surveillance solutions. From cameras, encoders and intelligent DVRs to
video management, viewing and analytics software, we help cover your
security operations.
Large,small, analog, IP, wired or wireless, Verint video solutions can help improve video networks.
Asthe trustedname in video surveillance, Verint solutions help protect investments,enhance security
andreduce operational costs. Multi-tiered support programs, expert services and the award-winning
Nextiva® video Portfolio represent fust the beginning of ways Verint transforms video into value.

Security Soiutions.
Companies across the globe
trust their vital video surveillance
operations to Verint video
solutions. This atone reinforces
that Verint offers not only the
products, but the confidence
you need, knowing that when you have Verint, you have
one less thing to worry about.
N!tiv", the industry's most comprehensive video portfolio,
features a flexible, open architecture for rapid deployment
reliable operation and lower cost of ownership. Video

encoders, 'P cameras, and intelligent DVRs that capture
images from practically any stationary or mobile location,
industry-leading wired and wireless devices, and
unprecedented a n a l y t i c s
technology are iust part of the Nextiva suite of products.
With Verint, you will find an all-in-one video surveillance
solution that meets the needs of virtually any industry, in
any location. Retail. Banking. Transportation. Corporate
enterprises. Hospitals. Government buildings. Military
bases. Ports. Airports. Tunnels. Bridges. Where there's a
surveillance need, there's a Verint solution.

\extivo Intelligent Edge Devices & Digital Video Recorders

J
NenrivaSingle-Port

NextivaMJnJ's0rt

Nexhva1PCamefas

Encoders a n d Decoders E n c o d e r 5

Nextiva ip !*''fn+

Corn+*,

Nenfi"a
- * ) , w . % , &dg+s
and Receivers

N+s
N+
+s/
s/v
/v,
v,Vocx)Aric4loo

Nextiva r#e!'igaqr
0*/+and
Networieci DVs

The N e x I
Nextiva 'P Cameras. Next va's powerful 'P cameras stand up to
the challenges of indoor and outdoor video surveillance, and offer a
large selection of options to accommodate both your obiectives and
budget. Our lp camera portfolio features low lux sensitivity, dual-stream
!"#G4/tv\]"#G
G video noise reduction, ssl- based authentication,
and performance speeds up to 4$I%/
%/&'
%/
/&' frames per second.
Industry-leading video encoding technology provides superior
imagery with optimal bandwidth utilization. Our a n a l y t i c s
‚Pcameras allow video to be analyzed at the point of capture,
eliminating the need to send video to centralized servers for analysis,
effectively reducing transport, server and storage requirements.
Nextivo Intelligent Mobile and Networked DVRs. Nextivas
DVRportfolio is built with embedded operating systems for enhanced
security and reliability. Industry-leading interfaces to business
and security systems enable banking, retail, hospitality, and other
organizations to tailor video recording and retrieval according to
the information these systems provide. And Nextiva enterpriseDVR
viewing and management software provides organizations with a
more complete understanding of their operations and more efficient,
centralized CCTV management.
Nextiva Single-Port and (lt-")*t Encoders and Decoders. Available
for a wide range of single and multi-camera indoor applications,
our encoders and decoders deliver excellent imagery while using
dramatically less bandwidth than other products on the market today.

I i As the market leader in 'P
video management solutions,
Verint should be on the short list
of every enterprise buyer. I
Frost & Sullivan

Nextiva single-port encoders ore available for a variety of single
camera applications with performance up to 4CIF/30 frames per
second. These encoders provide optional dual-stream !"#G4/
!"#G4/!
G4/!J
!J"#D
video with Power over Ethernet(POE] and on-board analytics.
Thedevices also include a R5-422/485 serial connection for
PTZsupport, one alarm input and one alarm output, s s L authentication, a noise reduction filter, bi-directional audio and an
extended temperature option.
Nextiva features powerful encoders for multi-camera, indoor
applications with performance up to 4CIE/30 frames per second.
Nextiva multi-port encoders provide dual-stream !"#G-4
G-4 video, a
Rs
alarm outputs, 551-based authentication, and a noise reduction filter.
Optional on-board video analytics and bi-directional audio are also
available. Compactly designed, these devices Fit in a 1 U, 6
(1 5
Nextiva Wireless Transmitters, Bridges and Receivers. Unlike many
wireless devices in the marketplace today, Nextiva wireless devices
ore built on technologies optimized specifically for video. The result?
Enhanced reliability and superior performance.
Nextiva wireless edge devices can transmit video over licensefree 2.4 and 5 GHz wireless bands and the 4,9 GHz U5 and
Canada public safety bands. 5SL-based authentication and AESwith
AESwith
a rotating 1 2 8
of wireless transmissions. A unique Verint protocol overcomes standard
WiFi limitations, such as hidden node and quality of service problems.
Enclosed in weatherproof casing, Nextivo wireless devices are
designed for outdoor use. City surveillance and infrastructure security,
including power plants, military installations, bridges, tunnels,
interstates and more, are ideal settings for our superior transmitters,
bridges and receivers.

TheIndustry's Most Corn preh
TheIndustry's
i hextivo Intelligent
Edge Devices and DVRs
Analog Cameras
Mega-Pixel Cameras
! iP PTZ Cameras and
'P Mini-Dome

D

'P Cameras with Analytics
! & Q Embedded DVRs
Mobile DVRs
! Video Encoders

! Wireless Devices

!si
!
siv" Video So ution Portfolio
Integration
' Gateway
'

R

0

External servers

f l External Data storage
! Transactional Data
. 0 Integrated Video
Analytics Applications
Q SoftwareDevelopment
Development Kits

Video
Management
Q & 0 HealthCheckTM Automate
System Diagnostics
I
Event Management
I
Virtual Matrix
Review Video Client
Investigation Management
Op
DVR Management
yid-Center-TM Enterprise
DVR Viewing

Integration Gateway

Video Management

irdegfahull Gafeway Screen Debit Examples

Video Mon ogenien; Screef Debit "#$%i
"#$%&io

Meeting Needs. Achieving More.

Benefits That are Easy to see.

Nextiva Packaged Integrations and Software Interfaces. With
Nextiva, you can deploy the video management, security and
business solutions that best suit your organization's budget
and needs. Our packaged integrations and software interfaces
facilitate interoperability with security, business and IT
infrastructures, access control, command and control, point of
sale, and other transaction-level systems. Nextiva also leverages
industry-standard networks, servers and storage, and supports
hybrid analog/digital environments — adding value to existing
CCTV investments, easing migration to P
and lowering cost of ownership.

array of powerful, integrated video management applications that
help your organization streamline video and make sense of vast
volumes of video and data. By providing your security and IT
Personnel a full suite of video management software, they con
easily manage large distributed areas, detect threats automatically,
improve video system uptime and streamline maintenance, and
reduce costs of ownership. The Nextiva portfolio of networked
'P video solutions helps companies eliminate many of the
deployment and operational issues associated with multiple
vendor solutions.

Unrivaled support
Partnering in success
World-Class Service and Support. At Verint, we are dedicated
to the success of our partners and customers. To this end, we've
developed world-class customer support programs and service
offerings. Staffed by Verint experts in all facets of networked
video deployment and use, Verint's Customer Support Program
features live technical support, web-based resources advanced
replacements and a host of on-site professional services. We work
closely with your security personnel to optimize your solutions,
maximize your investment, and anticipate, avoid and address
operational roadblocks.
Partner Relationships. Verint's strong business partner ecosystem
continues to expand and is comprised of leading organizations
around the world. These respected companies are dedicated to
providing complementary products and services to Verint's
customers. Companies like EMC and NC are lust a few of the
partners dedicated to delivering and implementing solutions that
combine best-in-class applications, services and hardware that
further enhance our awn portfolio. Verint is also pleased to partner
with ! broad range of System Integrators that allow you to work
with the firms you know or select new partners specially skilled in
maximizing the return on your existing technology infrastructure.

Nextiva Video Management Sofiware. Nextiva features a wide

Nextiva Video Analytics. Nextiva Analytics enhance situational
awareness and help transform threat detection from a manual,
resource-intensive operation to an efficient, accurate, automated
process. With Nextiva Analytics, your security staff can focus
on deterring and managing threats rather than trying to detect
them. Not only will you benefit from greater control over routine
activities, but you can also eliminate redundant tasks. The Nextiva
video analytics portfolio includes a variety of automated video
analysis applications for retail, finance, campus facilities,
transportation and critical infrastructure.

Powerful,Embedded Video Analytics. Nextiva integrated,
on-board video analytics analyze images at the point of capture
and help eliminate the need to send all video to centralized servers
for analysis. This can significantly reduce network bandwidth,
storage and server requirements, while providing highly accurate
image analysis.
A wide array of Nextiva and third-party analytic applications are
available for use with Nextiva intelligent edge devices. These
analytics are fully integrated with other Nextiva solutions and
software management applications. Video analytic rules can be
easily created and applied within the video management
environment, and alerts can be distributed almost anywhere
according to an organization's security policies.

Powering Actionable Intelligence?
Verint®systems Inc. is a leading provider
of actionable ir'telligence® solutions for an
optimized enterprise and a safer world.
More than 10,000 organizations in over
150 countries rely on Verint solutions to perform
moreeffectively, build competitive advantage,
and enhance the security of people, facilities,
and infrastructure.
Asia Pacific Headquarters:
VerintSystems(Asia Pacific)Ltd
Suite 715-716, Level 7, Core F
Cyberport 3, 100 Cyberport Road
HongKong
Marketing.apac@verint.com
(852) 2797 5678
www.verint.com
January 2009

Unauthorized use, duplication, or
modification of this document in whole or
in port without the written consent of Verint
systems Inc. is strictly Prohibited.! providing
this document, Verint Systems Inc,is not
making any representations regarding the
correctness or completeness of its contents
and reserves the right to alter this document at
any time without notice.
Features listed in this document ore sublect
to change. Please contact Verint for current
product features and specifications.
All marks referenced herein with the ®
or"
or
"#symbol ore registered trademarks
or trademarks of VerintSystems Inc. or its
subsidiaries, All rights reserved.
All other marks ore trademarks of their
respective owners
© 2009 Verint systems Inc. All Rights
Reserved Worldwide,

