VkR1N!
POWER;.

(

N

1 x t Edge
e
i v aDevices
„, Intelligent
yerinr offers the industry's most comprehensive array o f
intelligent edge devices designed to:
Capture images virtually anywhere
Analyse images quickly, accurately, and cost effectively
Transmit images wherever they are needed
Perform reliably and efficiently in ! wide range of applications
and environments
Deliver actionable intelligence from an IT-friendly platform
Fully integrated with the N"#tiv
"#tiv!
"#tiv
tiv!tM
!tM portfolio of video solutions,
these intelligent edge devices use Nextivo's centralised device
administration, system-wide device monitoring, and intelligent
video distribution to make security initiatives more manageable,
proactive, and effective.
Available on-board analytics make sophisticated analytic
technology practical and affordable for nearly every enterprise
camera, with high-quality image analysis and lower network
transport, storage, and server requirements.
And a versatile software Development Kit facilitates integration
with complementary security, business, and IT solutions.

Nextiva Intelligent Edge Devices are an essential
element of a successful security strategy. And Nextivo
Intelligent Edge Devices are from Verint, the leader in
networked video security solutions worldwide.
•

•

The. Industry's Most Comprehensive P

i .

Single-port and multi-port, wireline and wireless, indoor and outd

Nextiva Single-Port Encoders and Decoders
Nextivo Intelligent Edge Devices are available for a variety of single-camera, indoor
applications, with performance up to 4CIF 25 FPS.
Nextiva single-port encoders provide dual-stream !"#G4/!
G4/!J
G4/!
!J"#G
G video, with optional Power
over Ethernet (POE) and on-board analytics. All Nextiva single-port devices also include an
Rs
551-based authentication, a noise reduction filter, bi-directional audio, and an extended
temperature option.
.
$1900!
900

Compact, N D

51950!
950!

Compact, high-resolution encoder for oHordobleCCTV migration to enterprise 'P networks

51970e

DVD-quaiity encoder for optimal image quality, with optional POE

51970e-11 Compact decoder for delivering D V D

Nextiva Wireless Edge Devices
Built specifically for real-world security applications, Nextiva wireless devices transmit images
from virtually anywhere with a combination of features virtually unmatched in the industry.
Nextivo wireless edge devices support video transmission over license-free 2,4 and 5 GHz
wireless bonds and the 4,9 GHz us public safety band. Designed for outdoor use, they feature
compact, weatherproof enclosures, auto-sensing serial ports for device connectivity, EEL-based
authentication,AES encryption with rotating 1 2 8
standard wireless limitations. Hy combining a multi-band-radio, encoder, and antenna in a
single compact enclosure, these devices also speed deployment and reduce power and space
requirements.
51100 V i d e o encoder/transmitter and receiver (two units) for point-to-point wireless opplicotio'is, delivering !"#G-4
G-4 based video up to 4CIE,
25 FPE

51100w
53100

Video encoder/transmitter far paint-to-paint or p o i n t - t o
and WPA2 support, and dual-stream, !"#$-4
-4 based video up to 4CIE, 25 FPS
Wireless access point for aggregating traffic from multiple 51100w devices in p o i n t - t o

53100-Rp Wireless repeater for retransmitting signals from Nextiva wireless devices to a wired LAN in p o i n t
multipoint applications
53100-BR Twa units that acts as a wireless bridge for transmitting analogue or 'P camera images between two LANs in p o i n t

ta-multipoint applications

'! Portfolio of Intelligent Edge Devices
doutdoor, and analytics embedded — Only Verint offers all this.

Nextivo Multi-Port Encoderz
Nextiva features powerful encoders for multi-camera, indoor applications, with
performance up to 4CIF,.25 ff5,
Nextiva multi-port encoders provide dual-stream &'(G-4
G-4 video, an R s
serial connection for PiZ support, 12 dorm inputs and 2 alarm outputs,
55
analytics and bi-directional audio ore also available. Compactly designed, these
devices fit in a 1 U, 6-inch (1 5

I

51704.

4-Port, END-quality encoder with optional b i

81708
81708!

8

51712e

12

51724e

24

ne

Nextiva ‚P Cameras
Nextivo offers an array of IF cameras that address the challenges of indoor and
outdoor applications.

a

Nextivo IF cameras feature low lux sensitivity, dual-stream &'(
&'(G4/
G4/&
G4/&
&JJ'(
'(G
G video,
one alarm input and one alarm output, analogue video output, noise reduction,
551-based authentication, and performance up to 4CIF, 25 FP5, 12VD) support
orPOEcomes standard with most models, and on-board analytics and extended
temperature options are available,

$260Oe

super wide dynamic range (1 *2d
* +)
+) 'P camera with softwcre-progrommoble support for both interlaced and progressive scan video,
plus optional an-board analytics

52610e

Super wide dynamic range (102d+) IP camera designed for day-to-night use, with software-programmable support for both
interlaced and progressive scan video, plus optional on-board analytics

52700e

Pmini
rotation system for flexible camera placementiodiustment

52700e-yR 11
outdoor, day-to-night applications; features triple axis rotation system for flexible camera pIccement/od)ustment and optional extended
temperature support

Verint.
PoweringActionablel!t
!"
t"iIig
t"
"iIig"!#"
iIig"!#".
"!#".

Built to Meet the Challenges of
Today's Distributed 'P Networks
Standards based and Rol
Nextiva Intelligent Edge Devices ore
designed for high availability and easy
interoperobility with IT and enterprise
systems.
Nextivo Intelligent Edge Devices
facilitate migration t o ' P systems,
enabling organisations t o continue
using their existing analogue equipment
together with advanced IF-hosed video technology. They help optimise use of
valuable network resources, with !"#G-4
G-4 video compression, dynamic bandwidth
allocation, and dual streaming capabilities. They enhance operational efficiency and
security effectiveness with embedded analytics and dynamic noise reduction filters.
And, with the Verint Video Services over IF (VSIP) SDK, they can be readily integrated
with disparate security systems and used in custom applications developed for specific
purposes and environments.
Today, organisations across the globe rely on Nextivo Intelligent Edge Devices for
their mission-critical security programs.

The Nextiva Portfolio of Video Solutions
Nextivo is on integrated portfolio of networked video solutions for enhancing security
and operational effectiveness. Nextivo enterprise and vertical market solutions
address the needs of a wide range of industries, from banking and critical
infrastructure to retail and moss transit. Nextiva wireline and wireless edge devices
and embedded DVRs capture images from virtually any stationary or mobile location,
Nextiva's advanced analytics rapidly detect events in vast amounts of video and
enterprise data. A n d Nextivas robust video management software,
intelligent video distribution, and system-wide monitoring and diagnostics simplify
management of large, geographically-distributed operations.
Open, standards based, and IT friendly, Nextivo solutions provide superior system
availability, interoperobility, and value. •
•
.

Verint systems Inc. is a leading global
provider of analytic software-based solutions
for security and business intelligence. Verint
solutions help organisations make sense of
the vast voice, video, and data available to
them, transforming this information into
$% &'&()
$%ti
and highly effective performance.

I
,

Since 1994, Verint has been committed to
developing innovative solutions that help
global organisations achieve their most
important oblectives. Today, organisations
in over 50 countries use Verint solutions to
enhance security, boost operational
efficiency, and fuel profitability.

marketing.emea@verint.com
+44(0)1932 839500
w w w. v e
241 Brooklands Road, Weybridge,
Surrey, *+
*+1
1, ORH, UK
March 200/
VII#D0
D0 030/U

Byproviding this documeot, Verint systems Inc. is not
making any representations regarding the correctness or
completeness of its contents and reserves the right to alter
this document at any time without notice
All marks referenced herein with the ® or +!symbol are
registered trademarks or trademarks01Vennt systems Inc.
or its subsidiaries. All rights reserved At other marks are
trademarks of Iheir respective owners.

) 2007 Veiint SystemsInc All rights reserved.

1

‚/
POWER#4G .4!"#N$%.L& iNTELLIGEWCE•

Nextiva
Video Analytics
Enhancing security and Operational Effectiveness

., %
____)
____
• )'

, . .
)•

&• . . ,
a

l

.

'
i.

, , .,‚

Nextiva"Analytics help organisations make
sense of vast amounts of security video and
data, generating actionable intelligence for
better decisions and more effective action.
This Powerful suite o f analytic applications automatically
pinpoints potential breaches and significant events and sends
video alerts to the appropriate people and agencies. Nextivo
Analytics enhance situational awareness and transform threat
detection from a manual, resource-intensive operation t o
an efficient, accurate, and automated process. With Nextivo
Analytics, security staff can focus on deterring and managing
threats, rather than watching banks of video monitors trying to
detect them.
Full integration with the Nextivo Enterprise video management
Platform virtually eliminates the operational issues associated
with standalone analytic products. And Nextivo analyticsembedded edge devices analyse video at the point of capture,
delivering timely intelligence with lower data transport and
storage requirements, making onolytics practical and cost
effective for virtually every camera in the enterprise.

Plus, Nextiva Video Analytics are from Verint®, the
leader in networked video solutions worldwide.

4

A Powerful suite of Integrated Analytic Applications
Nextiva Anolyfics feature:
Rules-based obiect detection, classification, and tracking for detecting
suspicious activity i n areas o f interest and across tangible o r virtual
perimeters
Real-world understanding that intelligently applies scene- and obiect-specific
analytic rules, factors in weather and lighting conditions, and uses ground vs.
image plane analysis to determine an object's actual spatial location within a
scene
Real-time, contextual scene viewing that lets operators view multiple
camera feeds as ! single scene and automatically applies scene-specific PTZ
policies using camera settings

Nextivo automatically identifies and
classifies oblects within a scene, like
the man and the car in this video still.

Forensic analysis for locating events and patterns in stored video, expediting
investigations and making them more productive

Analytics At the Edge for Superior Accuracy, scalability,
and Cost Effectiveness
Nextiva a n a l y t i c s
quality video in real time, making your cameras more intelligent, your analyses
more accurate, and your alerts more timely. By eliminating the need to send all
data to centralised servers for analysis, Nextivo a n a l y t i c s
and I Pcameras reduce your data transport and storage requirements. Nextiva
onolytics "at the edge" con also dramatically increase the number of camera
inputs per server, enabling you to expand your analytic capabilities with less
equipment and at a lower cost.

Nextiva Integration for Intelligent Alert Distribution and
Highly Effective Operation
Nextiva can automatically "see" when
on exit is blocked.

•

•,

Nextiva Analytics are fully integrated with all Nextiva vertical market and
video management solutions, virtually eliminating the deployment issues
and operational costs associated with standalone analytic solutions. Video
analytic rules con be easily created and rapidly applied within the video
management environment. Alerts can be intelligently distributed practically
anywhere, according to the security policies your organisation has in Place.
And operators and managers can instantly and easily view video alerts from
Web browsers, network-connected PCs, and video walls u s t as they would
any other video.

‚ f

Nextiva Video Analytics Transform Video into Value
!-

Integrated Analytic Rules Definition

I
-.--

Security administrators use the intuitive Nextivo
Analytics Rule Builder to create video analysis
rules in line with your organisation's security
policies.

"

! - - J • J

2. Seamless Interaction with
All Nextiva solutions
The Nextiva Intel1 View Analytics Processor
processes these rules and pushes them to
your Next

4. Intelligent Alarm Distribution Anywhere
Within the Video Management Environment
Next
networkoperotionscentres, emergencycommunicotions
systems, security personnel, law enforcement agencies
- virtually anywhere that your security policies direct.

"
3. Analytics At the Edge
Nextivo a n a l y t i c s
analyse video according to the rules your organisation has defined, and
send video with alerts to the Nextivo IntelliView Anolytics Processor.

4

Fully integrated with the Nextiva portfolio of video solutions, Nextk
policy-based event management and video disTribui

i

Timely intelligence for
Mission-Critical Decisions
Nextiva access, direction, and behavioural
analytics rapidly pinpoint suspicious behaviours
and potentially dangerous situations: perimeter
breaches, objects taken or left behind, people
or vehicles loitering in sensitive areas, etc.
Tangible and Virtual Perimeter Protection
enable single and double tripwires to be drawn
and the threat level to be determined.

' - - , . . . .
.

-

-

-

- . . - -

Content-Based Viewing and Analysis apply
obiect- a n d scene-specific r u l e s ( o r
combinations of rules) to camera views.

,

Automatic O b i e c i Acquisition ideritifi es
suspicious activity.
tS!!Ji#'—.—. v — »

'

-

-

Automatic View Recognition applies spec fic
PTZsettings to specific camera views.

5. Immediately View Alerts via a
Unified, Rich User Interface

Virtual PTZ Views zoom in on specific obje ts
without additional cameras.

Using Nextiva Enterprise Review, authorised
personnel can view alerts, video, and data from
a networked PC or an Internet-connected PC

Forensic Analyser pinpoints significant ever is
and patterns in stored video.

with Web browser u s t as they would view
any other video.

Integrated Analytics Leverage Nextiv a
Video Management Capabilities
1.)
-

-'

,.,.

1s• !d.
, .

I .

"..'

--

".-

_

w

Nextiva Enterprise I
wide monitoring and diagnostics

m-

Nextivo Enterprise IntelliFlow r u l e s
video management engine

ed

Nextiva Enterprise Intellistreom v i r h
matrix video distribution
Nextiva Enterprise Review rich video viewin

6. Faster, More Productive Investigations
With the N e x t
staff can rapidly pinpoint Post events, unusual
activity, and significant behavioural patterns in
stored video and data.

Nextiva Analytics leverage intelligent,
disTribution capabilities.
,

Nextiva Enterprise M a p interactive visual
display of cameras and locations
Nextivo Enterprise Investigation Manogem ft
for collecting event-related video, audio, and d to
in a searchable database

The Nextivci Analytics'Packciges
•

E

I

Analytics A n a l y t i c s A n a l y t i c s
Silver G o l d P l a t i n u m

Complete integration with all Nextiva solutions and capabilities
Edge device based for lower infrastructure and operational costs
superior analytic accuracy in:
• Virtually all weather environments and day/night applications
• scene change detection (including lights on/lights off)
Real-world understanding and accurate obiect detection
within areas of interest using ground vs. image plane analysis

•

User-defined alert criteria via definition of object minimum and
maximum sizes and allowable percentage of change in size

•

Moving obiect analysis: classification of moving objects by type
(people, vehicles, etc.) and object speed analysis

•

.

!

Area of interest analysis, including:
• Moving objects that enter, exit, appear, or disappear

•

.

•

• Moving objects that are loitering
• Non-moving objects that are removed or left behind
Virtual perimeter analysis to detect moving objects crossing:
• A single virtual line in the field of view (single Tripwire)
• Multiple virtual lines noting specific orders and directions
(Double Tripwire)

Context-based viewing and analysis with multiple, view-specific
•

rules for PTZ camera pre-sets (Automatic View Recognition)
Multiple rule combinations for single views for greater flexibility
in policy creation and analysis of complex scenes

•

.

•

Nextiva Forensic Analyser to rapidly detect patterns in stored
video and retroactive rule creation and analysis
,

!

4

Which Nextiva Analytics Package is For You?
Nextiva Analytics Silver is designed for organisations that seek
sophisticated analytics capabilities, including the ability to detect and
distinguish between people and other objects in specific areas, without
the need for complex scene analysis.
Nextiva Analytics Gold is designed for organisations that require all
of the capabilities of Nextiva Analytics silver, plus the ability to detect
perimeter breaches and other unusual activity through the use of virtual
tripwires and different behavioural rules for different types of objects,
such as people, cars, and trucks.
Nextiva Analytics Platinum is designed for highly security-sensitive
organisations that require comprehensive behavioural monitoring
of all objects in and around a location, including the chain of events
preceding and following a breach.

Ve ri ft.
Powering Actionable
Intel Ii gence. '
Verint Systems Inc. (NASDAQ: VRNT)
is a leading global provider of analytic
software-based solutions for security
and business intelligence. Verint
solutions help organisations make
sense of the vast voice, video, and
data available to them, transforming
this information i n t o actionable
intelligence for better decisions and
highly effective performance.

The Nextiva Portfolio of Video solutions

Since 1994, Verint has been committed to
developing innovative solutions that help
global organisations achieve their most
important objectives. Today, organisations
in over 50 countries use Verint solutions

Nextiva is an integrated portfolio of networked video solutions for
enhancing security and operational effectiveness.

to enhance security, boost operational
efficiency, and fuel profitability.

Nextivo enterprise and vertical market solutions address the needs of a wide
range of industries, from banking and critical infrastructure to retail and
moss transit.
Nextivo wireline and wireless edge devices and embedded DVRs
capture images from virtually any stationary or mobile location.

ma rketing .e rneo@verint.com
+44(0)1932 839500

www.verint.com
241 Brooklonds Road, Weybridge,
Surrey, !"i# ORH, UK.
September 2006

Nextiva's advanced onalytics rapidly detect events in vast amounts of
video and enterprise data.
And Nextiva's robust video management software, intelligent video
distribution, and system-wide monitoring and diagnostics simplify
management of large, geographically-distributed operations.
Open, standards based, and IT friendly, Nextiva solutions provide
superior system availability, interoperobility, and value.

By providing this document, Verirri Systems Inc.
is not making any representations regarding Olt
correctness or completeness of its contents and
reserves the right to alter this document at any
time without notice.
All marks referenced herein with the ® or $%
symbol are registered trademarks or trademarks
of Verint Systems Inc. or its subsidiaries. All rights
reserved. All other marks are trademarks of their
respective owners.
& 2006 Verint Systems Inc. All r

