Verint Security and
Intelligence Management
Solutions

Key Benefits
• Increases efficiencies in both emergency management and
routine operations reducing investigation cycles and costs
• Complete intelligence and surveillance solution based on
an integrated suite of best-of-breed technologies and
applications
• Early detection and prevention of critical events based on
fusion of multiple data sources
• Improved response time, decision making, and resolution
of public safety events based on enhanced planning and
understanding of events and real -time situational awareness
• Enhances interoperability between public safety agencies
and authorities
• Optimized planning of security, physical, and human
resources
• Improved security and public safety regulatory compliance
based on enhanced reporting, efficient information sharing,
and escalation processes

V'ERINT
COMMUN ICATIONS INTELLIGENCE
AND INVESTIGATIVE SOLUTIONS '"

Today, public safety, municipal, and other government organizations
face unprecedented volumes of data, information systems, and
assistance requests. Extracting Actionable Intelligence® from the vast
information compounded by rising public expectations, the presence
of overlapping authorities and agencies, and the serious impact of
poor performance, makes ensuring public safety an increasingly
complex endeavor.
Verint Security and Intelligence Management Solutions help these
organizations rapidly identify, prevent, and address crisis situations
and maintain public safety more seamlessly and cost effectively. This
end-to-end intelligence, security, and surveillance solution includes
an integrated suite of best-of-breed analytics, location , detection ,
investigation, communication, and data fusion technologies designed
to facilitate crisis management in communications centers and
command and control environments.
Since 1994, Verint has delivered public safety solutions used by
thousands of organizations worldwide and world-class security
intelligence solutions that help government neutralize terrorism and
crime. No one understands public safety challenges better than Verint,
and no one is better positioned to help public safety organizations
achieve their critical objectives.
We don't just talk about public safety. We also advocate for
enablement and progress. Verint is an active participant in public
safety industry organizations around the globe. Our memberships
include the Association of Public Safety Communications Officers
(APCO), the British Association of Public Safety Communications
Officers (BAPCO), the National Emergency Number Association
(NENA), the NENA NG Partner Program , and the NENNAPCO NG91-1 PSAP Working Group.

Airports & Seaports

Actionable
Intelligence
Applications

Borders

Municipalities

Fusion

Command &
Control

Planning

Identity

-

Transportation

Video Analytics
& Surveillance

Location

Real-Time Monitoring

Reporting, Analysis
& Debriefing

Utility, Oil, & Gas

Speech Analytics
& Recordings

Training & Simulation

Detect, Collect, ~'!!"T'!'!!"T'!'!';!''!';!''Tr,'!';!''Tr,'!!"T'!'!!"T'!"!"''!!"T'!'Tr,"!"'!'!""'!!"T'!"!"'"t;~j;!!'!!"T'!"!"''!!"T'!'!!"T'!!'f!'!"'!!"T'!!'f!'!"!'f!'!"!'i!'!"!'i!'!"!'i!'!"!'i!'!"~"!'!T""!'i!'!"~~l!ll~
& Fuse Data
Autonomous :
·
security & Safety :
· G1s 'o~t~ba~~s ·
Communication Network
::
-:-:" Sensors
~
I"'•

1

'

d

,

"'

Security and Intelligence Management Components

Detect, Collect, and Fuse Data
Information collected provides insights into the location and identity of people, vehicles, and mobile phones, as well as the whereabouts of
cargo and luggage. Advanced video management and analytics software seamlessly integrates with any video input solution wh ile information
col lected from security, safety and facility management systems, and sensors is easily incorporated into the system. Organizational databases
and internet feeds provide useful information such as changing weather patterns and public opinion wh ile GIS data bases enable users to view
events and points of interest on maps to provide a wider intelligence picture.
A unique, independent, simple to operate, ad-hoc private GSM network for communication (SMS, speech, and video) provides a reliable
communication means for first responders and civilians in a crisis area and enables communication when public networks have col lapsed.
Further, the private GSM network enables the connection of various sensors to the data fusion management system via a wireless modem.

Command and Control
Open architecture enables this advanced, multi-site incident management system to integrate all key safety and security functionalities in a
single unified platform for optimal situational awareness and decision support. The Command & Control solution assists in managing both
routine operations and emergency situations and covers all phases of incident management including planning , train ing, real-time monitoring,
and debriefing.

Actionable Intelligence Applications
Data col lected is fused and processed across multiple applications to generate real-time information for optimal decision making. Moreover,
customers are able to simulate crisis scenarios and effectively measure the effects of floods, mass evacuations, gas leakages, and other such
disasters.

About Verint Communications Intelligence and Investigative Solutions
Verint" Communications Intelligence and Investigative Solutions TM help government agencies efficiently collect, correlate,
analyze, and investigate information from virtually any communication network and data-source to neutralize criminal
and terrorist threats in time to make a real impact. Built on Verint expertise deploying more than 400 Communications
and Intelligence Solutions projects in over 1100 sites across the globe, these solutions are reliable, scalable, and cost
effective engineered to address communication technologies today and those that emerge tomorrow.

V"ERINT.
info@verint.com

1-631-962-9600

Verint. Powering Actionable Intelligence.®

330 South Service Road

Verint" Systems Inc. (NASDAQ: VRNT) is a global leader in Actionable Intelligence"' solutions and value-added services.
More than 10,000 organizations in over 150 countries use our workforce optimization and security intelligence solutions
to improve enterprise performance and make the world a safer place. For more information, visit www.verint.com .

Melvil le, NY

117 4 7 USA

www.verint.com

Unauthorized use, duplication, or modification of this document 1n whole or in part without the written consent of Verint Systems Inc. is strictly prohibited. By providing this document,
Verint Systems Inc. is not making any representations regarding the correctness or completeness of its contents and reserves the right to alter this document at any time without notice.
Features listed in this document are subject to change. Please contact Vennt for current product features and specifications. All marks referenced herein with the ® or TM symbol are
registered trademarks or trademarks of Verint Systems Inc. or its subsidiaries. All rights reserved. All other marks are trademarks of their respective owners.

© 2010 Verint Systems Inc. All Rights Reserved Worldwide.

October 201 0

Communications
Intelligence and
Investigative Solutions
Today, cri minal and terrorist activity presents formidable challenges
for law enforcement, national security, intelligence, and other
government agencies. Additionally, overwhelming volumes of
information from diverse sources - including IP communication
networks , cellular networks, social networks , Internet forums,
and more - make it difficult to rapid ly detect threats, conduct
investigations, provide/present evidence and prevent crime and
terror.
Verint® Communications Intelligence and Investigative Solutions™
transform information overload into Actionable Intelligence® for
neutralizing terror and crime. Our solutions efficiently collect,
correlate, and analyze vast amounts of information from virtual ly
any number of sources and any type of communications network
to facil itate rapid and effective action.
Built on Verint expertise accumulated over the past 20 years
deploying hundreds of projects in over a thousand sites and
70 countries, these solutions are reliable, scalable, and cost
effectively engineered to address the communication technologies
of today and those that emerge tomorrow. Verint's large global
installed base and broad solution portfolio - ranging from large
strategic monitoring center systems covering nationwide Internet
backbones to tactical field deployments - makes Verint a global
leader in Actionable Intelligence® solutions .

•:•
•

Actionable Intelligence® for a Safer World'"

1/ERINT
POWERING ACTIONABLE INTELLIGENCE•

""'5~11--~""~··

-

i

•.

j

.I. . ,. ~
i ;

~

' ;
.,,,>.
,,

·-~
~ t~~-1

--·
>-

~

End-to-End Strategic and
Tactical Intelligence Portfolio
El Communications Interception
Available under the RELIANT™ and VANTAGE® brands, these warrant-based, target and mass interception
solutions intercept, monitor, and analyze information across a wide range of communications networks.
• Scalable, modular monitoring centers - cost effective, regardless of network size
• Compliant with international standards and regulations
• End-to-end intelligence workflow: interception, analysis, and embedded investigation methodology
• Built to accommodate massive volumes of IP communications, with superior, specialized filtering and monitoring

El Mobile Location Tracking
RELIANT, VANTAGE, and ENGAGE Gl2™ provide real-time mobile network device location tracking, with advanced
geospatial analytics and workflow to support investigative activities.
• Dedicated location analytics for retrospective and real-time subscriber behavior analysis
• Unique and third-party accurate location technologies, including CCP, ECID, RF-FP, A-GPS & U-TDOA
• Geographical rules and alerts for monitoring areas of interest, target proximity, and suspicious behavior

El Fusion and Investigation Management
X-TRACT® Fusion and Investigation fuses data gathered from multiple database sources and provides link analysis,
an adaptable investigative workflow, and analytics to increase investigation efficiency and productivity. X-TRACT
supports a wide range of complex investigations , including financial crimes that require expertise across various
domains, involve multiple government agencies, and require significant resources and time.
• Comprehensive solution with customizable rules and alerts, integrated analytic tools, a rich and intuitive user
interface, and sophisticated investigative methodology
• Provides powerful case management capabilities for organizing case-related data and analyses
• Facilitates information sharing and provides a view of cross-organizational intelligence

El Web Intelligence
Verint Web Intelligence collects, analyzes, and generates actionable web intelligence from large volumes of Internet content.
• Unique solution for generating content from social networks, forums, and biogs
• Transforms unstructured Internet content into structured data that can be analyzed, correlated, queried, shared,
and stored
• Works hand-in-hand with HUMINT, COMINT, and VISINT to provide a complete, verifiable intelligence picture

El Tactical Communications Intelligence
Our ENGAGE suite, which includes ENGAGE LAN, ADSL, WiFi, and ISP, ENGAGE V-Track™, and ENGAGE Gl2,
provides portable communication interception and location tracking capabilities for tactical field operations.
• Extends sophisticated cornmunications interception and location tracking and analysis capabilities to field operations
• Helps field operatives and tactical units detect and neutralize criminal and terrorist threats
• Designed to seamlessly integrate communication and location information collected in the field with information
collected at fixed main sites and systems

El Communications Service Provider Compliance
Our STAR-GATE solutions help communications service providers collect and deliver call-related information to government
agencies in compliance with CALEA and the European Council 's Lawful Interception ofTelecommunications act as well as
other lawful interception regulations and standards such as ETSI-LI and J-STD-025.
• Collects communications from virtually all networks
• Passive and active network access solutions
• Solutions for all network and operation sizes

Scalable, Modular Solutions Tailored to Your Organization
Our scalable, modular solutions help our customers address the ongoing evolution of communication technologies and growth
in communication volumes. Additionally, agencies and system integrators alike benefit from the open architecture on which our
solutions are built, facilitating integration with existing infrastructure for lower cost of ownership and operation.
With significant experience tailoring these powerful solutions to our customer's operational objectives and methodologies, we
offer fully localized solutions for law enforcement, national security, service provider compliance, and public safety.
Extensive Expertise in Large-Scale and Specialized IP Deployments
As a result of our extensive experience in deploying large-scale IP-based network solutions around the globe, including mass IP
interception solutions for nationwide Internet backbones and cellular networks, we understand the significant challenges posed
by IP interception and monitoring. Our portfolio features the Verint IP-Probe™, which provides full interception, decoding, highperformance filtering, and analysis of mass and target IP traffic. A specialized decoding team remains abreast of dynamic protocol
changes in the Internet and its applications to provide a comprehensive decoding package and protocol support program. For
example, today our solutions are among the few to perform Skype, Emule, and Bittorent CDR extraction.
Our dedicated team of IP interception and investigation experts provide guidance for our customers and direction in implementing
optimal IP workflows for their environment to maximize lead generation and shorten investigation cycles.
Advanced Intelligence Methodology
Through close partnerships with our customers, we continually optimize our operational methodologies, providing custom
methodologies for each organization's unique operational needs.
Strong Security Orientation
Given the sensitive nature of the operations of our customers, we perform all implementation and support activities according to
the specific security requirements of each customer. We have implemented formalized Company Security Policy and Customer
Interaction Procedures, and all of our company activities are carried out in strict accordance with these policies. These guidelines
help us ensure that customer's information, assets, and reputations are protected throughout the lifecycle of a project.
Verint is Powering Actionable Intelligence
To learn more about Verint Communications Intelligence and Investigative Solutions, visit our website www.verint.com

Web2o
Internet
Wireline Netw.
IMFi, WiMax orks
Mobile Cellu!.
Tactical c, ft. ar Networks
Off-air
e ular Networks
Databases

j)
'-

Law Enforcement

National Security

Intelligence

I1

I
Pub!~Saf~
Service Provider

-·=.

··~---«<tMC'~'_,m»~~·~

t'
}

~

~"'l---fl#t
"

f'

1'

•

'

"

'

~

Strategic and Tactical Mobile Location Solutions in Action
The Organization: A major West European Law Enforcement Agency
Strategic Challenge: Return a kidnapped business woman to safety and apprehend the abductors.
The Solution: RELIANT monitoring center and ENGAGE Gl2 for tactical GSM and UMTS monitoring
Using RELIANT at the national level in unison with a field deployed ENGAGE Gl2, the Law Enforcement
Agency identified the general location of the hostage and then successfully homed in on the perpetrators,
apprehended them and brought the hostage to safety - within 24 hours.

I

Mass and Target IP Interception Solutions in Action
The Organization: An Intelligence Agency in East Europe
Strategic Challenge: To intercept and analyze mass and target Internet traffic over the country's entire ISP
network backbone. This involved the capture of approximately 3,000,000 e-mails and 12,000,000 web -mails
a day. The system had to support eight webmail protocols, including five local protocols. Further, the agency
needed to retain intercepts for a period of 90 days.

The Solution: VANTAGE Monitoring Center and IP Investigation Methodology Train ing
Verint installed a scalable, cost-efficient IP interception solution comprising 16 Verint IP-Probes at 14 points
of presence, covering the country's entire ISP network backbone, including some 1OGig links. Verint IP
investigation methodology working together with the VANTAGE monitoring center, has enabled th is agency to
successfully extract intelligence from the mass of data and store vast amounts of intercepts.

Fusion and Investigation Solutions in Action
The Organization: A Law Enforcement Agency (LEA) in Latin America
Strategic Challenge: To generate Actionable Intelligence from valuable information located in 12 unrelated data
sources, such as the population registrar, police and jail records , motor registrar, intercepted communications
data, and call data records (CDRs) from service providers. The databases have different structures, formats,
and locations, ranging from 5 million to over 50 million records in size.

The Solution: X-TRACT
Verint X-TRACT provides this law enforcement agency with a unified platform for analyzing, investigating, and
generating intelligence from this multi-format, multi-source data. X-TRACT also enables the agency to run
sophisticated searches and queries against large volumes of data.

About Verint Communications Intelligence and Investigative Solutions
Verint® Communications Intelligence and Investigative Solutions™ help organizations efficiently collect, correlate,
analyze and investigate information from virtually any communication network and data-source to neutralize criminal
and terrorist threats in time to make a real impact. Built on Verint expertise deploying interception applications
across the globe, these solutions are rel iable, scalable, and cost effective engineered to address communication
technologies today and those that emerge tomorrow.

./ERINT.
marketing.lis@verint.com

1-631-962-9600
330 South Service Road
Melville, NY 117 4 7 USA

Verint. Powering Actionable Intelligence.®
Verint® Systems Inc. (NASDAQ:VRNT) is a global leader in Actionable Intelligence® solutions and value-added
services. More than 10,000 organizations in over 150 countries use our workforce optimization and security
intelligence solutions to improve enterprise performance and make the world a safer place. For more information,
visit www.verint.com.

www.verint.com

Unauthorized use, duplication, or modification of this document in whole or in part without the written consent of Verint Systems Inc. is strictly prohibited. By providing this document,
Verint Systems Inc. is not making any representations regarding the correctness or completeness of its contents and reserves the right to alter this document at any time without notice.
Features listed in this document are subject to change. Please contact Verint for current product features and specifications. All marks referenced herein w ith the ® or TM symbol are
registered trademarks or trademarks of Verint Systems Inc. or its subsidiaries. All rights reserved. All other marks are trademarks of their respective owners.
November 2010

