C.I.A.

Cell Phone Intercept Apparatus

Wireless Cell Phone Detection and Monitoring System

VIEW SYSTEMS
View Systems recently added C.I.A.
Wireless Cell Phone Detection and Monitoring System to
its product line.
C.I.A. was originally created for the military as a tool to
seek out cell phones being used to detonate bombs. It has
the ability to locate cell phones, store their unique codes in a
database, and even drain battery power or disable usage if
necessary.
C.I.A. is currently available exclusively to prison
systems. It is not sold commercially.

C.I.A. is #1 in Detection of

Mobile Communication Technology

•

Wireless access point supporting full remote control

•

Compact device custom built into 1550 Pelican Case capable of
operating in a vehicle or static location

•

True Stealth Technology virtually eliminates the possibilities of being
detected due to switch activity on the network

•

Designed to provide the Department of Justice and the military with
the most comprehensive communication technology available

•

Ability to block calls from coming in

•

Detects where calls are coming from

4 Modes of Operation

•

Detects the network of the incoming call

•

Optional voice decode, record and forward

Interrogate Mode: Stores phone’s IMSI / IMEI code in
system database and releases the handset back to the
Commercial Network in a non-destructive manner.

•

Ability to drain cell phone battery remotely

•

Stores phone’s IMSI / IMEI code in system database
for tracking purposes

•

Allows for covert call monitoring
1550 Caton Center Drive, Suite E
Baltimore, Maryland 21227
Phone: 410.242.8439 / Toll-Free: 877.843.9462
Fax: 410.242.0765

Targeted Mode: Stores phone’s IMSI / IMEI code in
system database, and releases them in a nondestructive manner except for ‘Targets’ which are
locked to the system until they go out of range or are
released by the system.
Firewall Mode: Stores phone’s IMSI / IMEI code in
system database and locks them, controlling the ability
to make or receive calls, SMSs, etc.
DF Mode: Stores phone’s IMSI / IMEI code in system
database and releases the phone back to the commercial network in a non-destructive manner, except for
those designated as ‘DF’ which will be locked until they
go out of range or are placed into a “covert call” mode
that facilitates their location with a DF unit.

Visit us online at www.viewsystems.com

C.I.A. : Cell Phone Intercept Apparatus

C.I.A. : Cell Phone Intercept Apparatus
Product Specifications
GX Series 200
Designed to provide Law Enforcement and the Military with a comprehensive toolkit of functionality in the increasing battle against mobile communications technology.

• Compact device integrated into custom 1550 Pelicase,
capable of operation in Vehicle or a static location.
• Contains two fully functional “commercial grade” 20W BTS transceivers.
• Supports high speed acquisition of handsets (up to 800 per minute),
across up to two simultaneous networks.
• Available in 900/1800, 850/1900, or any custom
combination.
• Full identification of IMSI, IMEI and TMSI information and dynamic control capabilities, including comprehensive denial of service.
• Optional SMS and “Man In the Middle” Voice decode/record and forward.
• Optional “In Network Calling” allowing calls to be made within the GX
system.
• Compatibility with Datong’s excellent DF10CX
Direction-Finding system.
• Excellent RF performance in high multi-path environments.
• Built-in “environment monitor” to assess the number of GSM networks
in an area, the respective configurations, and provide information to
optimally configure the BTS
modules.
• Proprietary “TrueStealth” technology supports repatriation of original
TMSI and GCI on most handsets. This allows for rapid information gathering to later use on a complimentary passive system, and also virtually
eliminates the possibilities of being detected due to switch activity on
the network.
• Each transceiver is independently configurable for all
Network parameters, and can transmit between 130mW and 20W in
2dB steps. Uses BCCH manipulation to give a “virtual power” effect of
up to several hundred watts.
• Excellent power consumption of less than 15A at 14V, when transmitting 40W of RF Power.
• Comprehensive mySQL database featuring handsets cross-referenced
against IMEIs, and networks against PLMNs. In many cases a picture of
the model of handset is presented to the operator when querying an
IMEI.
• Built-in 802.11 Wireless Access point supporting full
remote control. The communications protocol is proprietary and selfoptimises to accommodate the bandwidth available.
• Uplink port for connection to a WAN facilitating remote
diagnostics and simple software
upgrading.
• Compatible with the UX external UMTS module.

Side Panel (Right)
Ethernet and Power
connections

Side Panel (Left)
Antenna connections

For More Information
or
To Schedule a
Demonstration
Contact your View Systems
Representative Today
By Phone: 877-843-9462
By Fax: 410-242-0765
By Email:
kfieden@viewsystems.com

1550 Caton Center Drive - Suite E - Baltimore, Maryland 21227 - Tel (410) 242-8439 - Toll Free: (877) 843-9462 - Fax: (410) 242-0765
info@viewsystems.com

www.viewsystems.com

