VAi Data Center

Purchase Information

Access to vital data - formatted for you and
ready to use!

VAi offers Tiered pricing based on the
number of queries performed each month .

The VAi Data Center uses DIG technology to
make content available in a convenient and
standardized format that supports real-time
queries. We make it easy to find the data
you are looking for using DIG's built-in
capabilities for Full-Text Searching , Batch
Queries, and Alerting on new content that
matches what you're looking for.

1,000*

$ 500

$ 0.50

5,000*

$ 1,000

$ 0.20

10,000*

$ 1,500

$ 0.15

50,000*

$ 2,000

$ 0.04

The following methods of access are
supported :

Mission-Critical Data, At Your Fingertips

100,000*

$ 3,000

$ O.Q3

fast, secure, convenient, standardized

DIG Server to Server

100,000 +

Call for quote

A "data layer" connection from your DIG Server(s) to
our DIG Servers at the VAi Data Center.

*VA/ offers a 10% grace on monthly query
volume . Queries in excess of the grace amount
will be billed at the Cost per Query for that Tier.

Visualinks to DIG Server
Have a Visualinks Server, but not a DIG Server?
Connect to our Data Center using the Visualinks
to DIG Connector.

All Packages require an annual comm itment
with either quarterly or annual billing. Any
overage adjustments are billed on next
billing cycle.

DIG Smart Client
Go directly to our Data Center web site and use
the DIG Smart Client to query any sources
available to your account.

Web Services API
Connect your custom application, web site,
portal, or commercial software directly to any
data sources available to your account. *Source
code (C#) and documentation are available.

Visual Analytics offers our Data Center sources
in a variety of packages to suit your
organization 's needs. Contact our sales team
for more details.
Email : sales@visualanalytics.com
Phone: 1-877-407-4VAI (4824)

VAi provides discounts for Multiple Packages.

U.S. Sex Offenders Package

MethCheck Package
~MethGheck

-

,
fa~\Yatdldos

.

~.~

The U.S . Sex Offenders Package provides
access to over 500 ,000 sex offender records in
all 50 states. Details include First and Last
Name , Photo I Mug Shot, Aliases , Addresses ,
Charge Information, Level of Offense , Links to
Online Maps , and is fully Geo-Coded with
Latitude I Longitude .
This data is updated daily and provides fast ,
unified access to this important resource.
Interested parties may include : Law
Enforcement, Schools , Employers , Landlords ,
and Neighborhood Watch groups .
Provided in partnership with Family Watchdog<ii;>
(www.familywatchdog.us) .

The RiskAnalyzer Package combines several
High-Risk Watch Lists, including the Nomino Data
RiskFeed™ products , into one point of access .
This package will help your organization identify
key individuals and groups that are targeted by the
U.S. Government for Bank, Fraud , or Terrorism
reasons . Knowing that you are dealing with such
people is key to making the right decision in any
situation (employment, arrest, doing business
with , positions of trust , etc.).

The MethCheck Package contains
Pseudoephedrine registered sales data from major
pharmacies around the United States. These sales
are legally controlled and logged since retail
Pseudoephedrine is a primary ingredient used by
thousands of illicit Methamphetamine Labs.

Data sources include: OFAC, FBI, HMT, OSFI,
Interpol, FATF, EU, WB , UN, BIS, and OTC.

Access to this data lets you track individuals seeking
to circumvent the legal buying limits by "smurfing"
from store to store. Individuals use this technique to
accumulate an illegal amount of cold medicines,
often used to create variations of "meth."

This data is updated weekly and provides a key
reference point to help combat risk in almost any
industry.

This data is updated every few minutes and
provides invaluable, unified access for Law
Enforcement.

Provided in partnership with NominoData rM
(www. nominodata.com) .

Provided in partnership with Appriss®
(www.appriss.com).
*This package is priced using the Appriss model. VAi
pricing models do not apply

Social Security Death Master Index
(SSDI) Package
The Data Center
P"

4 User Methods of Access

The JusiceXChange Package includes information
about incarcerated individuals throughout the United
States. Details include Custody Status, Offender
Home Address and Phone, Offender Release I
Transfer I Escape Status, and Photo I Mug Shot.
Access to this information enables quick location of
offenders, monitoring of probationers and parolees,
and tracking down dead-beat parents.
This data is updated daily and provides invaluable,
unified access for Law Enforcement.
Provided in partnership with Appriss® (www. appriss.com).
*This package is priced using the Appriss model. VAi
prialng models do not apply.

:. -' Local Server

DIG• Smart Client
.)

,4

The SSDI Package provides access to
approximately 82 million records on deceased
individuals. Details include Social Security
Number, First and Last Name, Birth Date, and
Death Date.
This data is updated monthly and adds a crucial
check to combating fraud in many areas. Activities
may include: Law Enforcement, Employment
Screening, and Anti-Money Laundering Compliance.

VlsuaUnks•

t;yC

Datasource Packages

