Q)

:J

(.)
If)
Q)

If)
Q)

~

0

~

ea

:t:

~

(ij
'(3
Q)

c.

0"'-

"'0

s::::
0

s::::

LL.

~

ea

en z

-

a:

ea

(.)

.s::::

"'-

ea
Q)

'E

~

en

Q)

0

CD

t/ERINT
POWERING ACTIONABLE

INTELLIGENCE ~~~>

A single source
serves virtually
all your tactical
intelligence needs
The ENGAGE® Tactical Off-Air Intelligence Solution portfolio offers
military, navy, and special operation units a single source of fieldproven solutions. Solutions that work together and independently
of service providers, to broaden intelligence capabilities in a
wide variety of mission-critical operations and in almost any
communication environment. ENGAGE Tactical Off-Air Intelligence
Solutions includes versatile, tactical, and portable solutions to
gather intelligence from cellular and satellite mobile phones and
WiFi networks.

Verint ENGAGE Tactical Off-Air Interception Solutions Portfolio
Operation Command and Control
ENGAGE® Tactical Command and Control™

lP Interception and Tampering
ENGAGE® WiFi

Cellular Interception and Control
ENGAGE® Gl2®
ENGAGE® Pl2™

Operational and Product Methodology
Tactical training academy

Mobile Satellite Interception
ENGAGE® Sl2™

ENGAGE Tactical Off-Air-Intelligence Solutions are from Verint
Systems, the leader in Actionable Intelligence® solutions. They
are the fruit of almost two decades of Verint expertise in providing
communications interception and intelligence solutions to law
enforcement, security, and intelligence agencies across the globe.

Global Cellular Location
SKYLOCK™

Deployment Options
Enhance covertness and mobility

Identify Potential Targets

Gain the
Intelligence
Advantage
The ENGAGE portfolio provides
end-to-end solutions to help
ensure the success of each
stage of the operation

-

-····--~·

Identify Potential Targets and
Build an Intelligence Picture
Over Cellular Networks
Passively and covertly collect cellular traffic in an area and
analyze it in real time to identify potential targets
Highlights
» Collect mass GSM traffic over a wide area
» Identify suspicious communication patterns using a range of analysis tools :

» Location

» Speech Recognition
» Link Analysis
» Text Matching
» Intercept voice calls and text messages of potential targets
» Decrypt A5/ 1 and A5/ 2 encryptions with an embedded decipher
»

Operate undetected leaving no electromagnetic signature

» Selectively downgrade UMTS traffic to GSM
» Enable multiple users to analyze calls at the same time

Build an Intelligence Picture
Over Mobile Satellite Networks
Passively intercept, detect, and monitor mobile
satellite communications

Highlights
» Covertly intercept Thuraya, lnmarsat, lsatPhone Pro, and Iridium communications
» Intercept phone calls, text messages, faxes , and raw data communications
» Decrypt Thuraya and lsatPhone Pro communications using a software-only decipher
»

Cover a vast area of downlink communications of up to several hundreds of kilometers

»

Display handset positions according to network location information

Build an Intelligence Picture
Over lP Networks
Identify, intercept, decode, manipulate and analyze WIFI
enabled devices such as tablets, smartphones, and laptops

Highlights
»

Actively and passively intercept WiFi communications based on :
802 .11 a/b/ g/ n, 2.4Ghz, and 5GHz

» Active interception of mobile handsets, even when not intentionally

connected to a WiFi network
»

Leave battery-operated , water-resistant, and ruggedized probe
outdoors and unmanned

» Intercept target communication at a distance w ith zero packet loss
» Choose from multiple active interception methods to overcome

encryption of private communication
» Identify access points and intercept MAC addresses in the area
» Remotely manage multiple ENGAGE WiFi probes with one control unit
» Decode and analyze lP intercepts

Locate Target Area
Remotely locate GSM and UMTS targets located anywhere
across the world at cell level precision

Highlights
» Locate the approximate area of GSM and UMTS targets

» Work independently of local service providers
» Help ensure mission success with a 24/ 7 support service
» Leverage a global infrastructure that maximizes operation covertness

--·--~--

Move In On Target
Accurately locate, intercept, and control GSM
and 3G (UMTS) target mobile phones using an
active solution

Highlights
» Accurately locate target using dedicated homing device without

ENGAGE GI2-M™
Trolley Case

disabling target's ability to communicate
» Extract target's mobile phone GPS coordinates on both GSM

All-in-one portable solution
for rapid deployment

and UMTS (3G) networks
» Listen to, read, edit, and reroute incoming and outgoing calls and

text messages (A5/1 and A5/3 encryption)
» Remotely activate a mobile phone's microphone
» Identify the presence of target mobile phones

ENGAGE Gl2 -R™
Rack Mount
Modular units for fixed installations
in vehicles and buildings

» Block cellular communications to neutralize IEDs and more

ENGAGE GI2-C™
Compact
Exceptionally small unit for use in covert
operations in crowded areas

ENGAGE GI2-ATR™
Ruggedized
High-power unit built for harsh
operating conditions

Manage and Control
Tactical Operations
Optimize operations that involve multiple tactical
units in the field by building a complete picture
upon which decisions are made

Highlights
» View deployed ENGAGE tactical units on a geographical map

» Receive target identification alerts from tactical units

» View target locations on a geographical map
» Optimize resource allocation in the field according to real-time information
» Communicate with tactical units

» Receive real-time status of each unit

End-to-End
Tailored Deployment
Enhance the effectiveness of field operatives with
tailored vehicle and airborne installations, covert
kits, body wear, and baggage solutions

Verint has acquired substantial experience and a rich understanding
of tactical operational complexities through assisting its customers
in diverse, covert scenarios across the globe. Based on this knowhow, Verint is able to create tailor-made solutions to reduce logistical
challenges, enhance covertness, and extend the operational range.
Solutions can include fully outfitted vehicles, sea-vessels, and light
aircraft.
Off-the-shelf accessories are also available to provide quick and easyto-install solutions. Accessories range from covert car installations to
body wear and covert portable baggage.

Operational Training
A comprehensive program run by teams of Verint experts
and special operations personnel to gain operational
competence in the field

Verint's expert tactical team and former special operations personnel use real-life
scenarios to help guarantee customer competence in the field . This program is
tailored to prepare for a broad range of operational tasks:
• Managing special intelligence operations
• Collecting tactical COMINT from a remote command and control room
• Analyzing communication information to identify suspicious targets
• Extracting intelligence about a suspicious area
• Loc-ating targets in real time while remaining covert
• Ensuring the safety of personnel and equipment in hostile environments
Customers can choose the training course that is most suited to their needs:
Basic: performed by Verint's expert tactical team, this course provides your
technical and operational staff with the guidance required to operate their tactical
solution in a proficient, covert and independent manner.
Advanced: enhancing the basic course, the advanced session is run by former

special operations personnel. This advanced course is built around each customer's
unique requirements and focuses on complex covert operational scenarios and
logistics. Subjects include selecting superior transmission locations, finding targets
in motion, working in crowded places and troubleshooting any operational problem .

----·~

Verint Communications and Cyber Intelligence
Solutions
Verint® Communications and Cyber Intelligence Solutions TM help
law enforcement, national security, and other government agencies
neutralize terror and crime. Our solutions enable communication service
providers to comply more fully and seamlessly with lawful interception
mandates. And they help public sector organizations detect and thwart
cyber attacks.

About Verint Systems
Verint® (NASDAQ: VRN1) is a global leader in Actionable Intelligence®
solutions. Its portfolio of Enterprise Intelligence Solutions rM and Security
Intelligence Solutions rM helps organizations Make Big Data Actionable ™
through the ability to capture, analyze and act on large volumes of rich,
complex and often underused information sources-such as voice,
video and unstructured text. With Verint solutions and value-added
services, organizations of all sizes can make more timely and effective
decisions. Today, more than 10,000 organizations in 150 countries,
including over 80 percent of the Fortune 100, count on Verint solutions
to improve enterprise performance and make the world a safer place.
Headquartered in NY, Verint has offices worldwide and an extensive
global partner network. Learn more at www.verint.com.

Unauthorized use, duplication, or modification of this document in whole or in part without the written
consent of Verint Systems Inc. is strictly prohibited.
By providing this document, Verint Systems Inc. is not making any representations regarding the
correctness or completeness of its contents and reserves the right to alter this document at any
time without notice.
Features listed in this document are subject to change. Please contact Verint for current product
features and specifications.
All marks referenced herein with the ® or TM symbol are registered trademarks or trademarks of
Verint Systems Inc. or its subsidiaries. All rights reserved. All other marks are trademarks of their
respective owners.
©2013 Verint Systems Inc. All Rights Reserved Worldwide.

www. verint.com

vf=RINT.

