SAS" Public Security Solutions
omer Success Stories

PUBLIC SECURITY

0

Law Enforcement

a
0

Fusion Centre

@ National Security @ Border Management

CUSTOMER SUC

Table of contents
.........................................................................................
. .

Introduction

.

..............................................,......,,......................................,.p...,..
~

.

.

-

SAS@Success stories Examples
..
,

National Security

'

,

.......................................................
Arab Fusion Centre
A Large Government Department

Law Enforcement
UK Police Force

Gloucestershire Constabulary

mwafz&wh
British Transport Police
The Pennsylvania State Police
Florida Department of Corrections

-

London Metropolitan Police Service
South African Justice
Washington DC Court Service

Border Management

................... ......................7...............,...,.
i

.

.

Odyssey
Border Control including use of Biometrics
Korea Customs Service
China Customs
International Law Enforcement Agency

Fusion Centres and Information Sharing
Michigan Intelligence Operations Centre

Introduction
.....................................................................................
SAS' Public Security solutions address the needs of four principal areas:
National Security
Law Enforcement
Border Management
Fusion Centre and Information Sharing
For each of these sectors, SAS@solutions support the collection, processing, analysis and
dissemination of intelligence in ways that enhances the efficiency of the agencies' operations,
while reducing the threat to public security.
SAS has considerable experience of deploying large-scale, mission critical applications on
time and on budget. As 'large-scale' can mean many different things, for instance: large data
volumes; large number of users; large implementation; we have provided in this paper a
number of relevant examples that highlight each of these aspects.
For such large-scale implementations SAS has often 'primed' the implementation (i.e. been the
lead contractor) using its own resources which are some several thousand strong. However, for
many of our clients SAS solutions form a central part of a wider project. We are, therefore, also
experienced in working with a Systems Integrator or Business Process Outsourcer.

SAS@Success Stories - Examples
SAS is used by many governments and agencies around the world to support the delivery of
their policies regarding security and stability, fighting crime, protecting society and ensuring the
safety of visitors. SAS is used to reinforce internal and external security, control crime, terrorism
and drug smuggling. SAS is able to assimilate data from a huge variety of sources, and provides
a common data format used to exchange security information, fuse data sources together
and deliver intelligence and insight, based on SAS' Advanced Analytics and Reporting. On the
following pages are some examples of projects from larger installations around the world.

CUSTOMER SUC

National Security
system is used
deconfliction
assessment, and
provides the foundation for
an Intelligence-led Policing
(ILP) approach.

Producing and exploiting actionable intelligence without compromising
security
Arab Fusion Cell
The requirement was for a national security and intelligence solution. This involved migrating
several national systems into the centralised SAS intelligence solution.
The data includes: immigration data - 25 million records per year; policing - 9 million records
per year; traffic, driver and vehicle details - 20 million records per year; hotel reservations - 3
million records per year.

A large Government Department
The challenge for this agency was the ever-growing volumes of cyber-security data that must
be captured and analysed. This data encompasses millions of alerts each day and several
terabytes of data in both structured and unstructured (text) format.

I

Besides CAD and RMS,
SAS also integrates data
from disparate sources,
such as case and gangs
manaaement, Sus~iciou:
Activity Reporting (SAR),
and confidential informant
management.

C

l

The SAS solution integrates, stores and analyses large volumes of data with the primary
objective of correlating and prioritisingsecurity events that occur within the network in an
automated fashion, thus allowing analysts the ability to focus on the areas of greatest threats.
Administrators and organisational leadership are also kept abreast of pertinent data through
customised information delivery interfaces.

I
3I

Improvised explosive
devices are a major threat
to security and stability in
certain parts
of the world. By identifying
networks that finance and
deploy explosive devices*=
SAS can uncover and

F

@$$fa
,-S

*

CUSTOMER SUCCESS STORIES

Law Enforcement
.....................................................................................
Providing a Complete End-To-End Law Enforcement Solution, and Supporting
Data Management, Intelligence, and Analytical and Reporting Needs
UK Police Force
One of the UK's largest police forces deploys a SASa intelligence platform across the entire
enterprise.
The system is used by 40,000+ officers and civilians in daily use. Providing real time
intelligence 24/7/52. They have been a customer since 1994 and been through numerous
technology refreshes, showing their dedication to robust, effective intelligence management on
a massive scale.
The solution contains over 12 million documents and 9 million structured records. The system
is mission critical with twin resilient sites. It serves 40 devolved management units. The system
also has 15 firewalled subsystems providing integration with confidential, highly specialised,
highly secure protected units. Other Government agencies have secure access to the system.

Gloucestershire Constabulary
In 2002 Gloucestershire Constabulary began its Vision 5 programme to "promote effective and
efficient services". Along with Freedom of lnformation requirements, this was the key catalyst
to invest in improved data quality, remove inaccuracies, provide new levels of insight to support
improved law enforcement, and to continue providing performance information and intelligence
while adapting to new requirements and priorities.
Gloucestershire Constabulary used SAS to help them drive more intelligence-led and targeted
policing, supporting overall management and performance improvements as well as providing
new insights and supporting national initiatives including the IMPACT programme, Management
of Police lnformation and the PND (Police National Database).

South Wales Police
South Wales Police needed to migrate millions of records dating back to 1994 from legacy
systems into a new policing records management system. It was important to retain access
to data stored in decommissioned systems and to free users across the business from
data preparation tasks so that they could focus on value-added analytics to better support
management.
SASa Data Integration Studio was the key tool used for the migration, and the only tool for
backup and conversion elements. With the migration successful, 15 years' accumulated crime
data, covering a million crimes plus everything linked to those crimes, including photographs
was easily accessible in a single location.

..

CUSTOMER S

The benefits have included efficiency gains, improved accuracy and consistency; enabling
analysts to focus on value-added activity (helping the force 'do more with less' and ensure
public safety); meeting internal reporting needslmonthly crime statistics for management and
performance activity, plus statutory reporting including Home Office returns.

British Transport Police (BTP)
The BTP is the national police force for the railways, providing a policing service to rail
operators, their staff and passengers throughout England, Wales and Scotland. The Force is
also responsible for policing the London Underground system, the Docklands Light Railway, the
Midland Metro Tram System and Croydon Tramlink.
l

Through data sharing development by SAS, BTP are now able to access local police force
intelligence data more efficiently and therefore better able to investigate crime.
In addition to a force-wide Intelligence Management system, the BTP procured an analytics
application to take on the role of the BTP's Intelligence Data Warehouse. This application
enables the BTP to share intelligence data with other forces including Thames Valley, West
Mercia, Essex, Nottinghamshire and West Midlands Police. BTP have ambitions to extend this
partnership approach in the future.
A BTP spokesman commented: "Our analysts can now use sophisticated and powerful
searching methods to analyse a whole range of data, including that of partners, quickly
and easily. It is probably the most powerful tool we have. Using software systems like
the one provided by SAS will mean offenders being identified more quickly, benefiting
victims and potentially preventing further crimes being committed. The experience of BTP
clearly demonstrates how partner agencies can come together to maximise the benefits of
intelligence-led policing."

The Pennsylvania State Police
Using the latest in SAS technology, police in the country's sixth most populous state are
providing their frontline troopers with instant access to all available criminal intelligence
information through computer alerts, instant messaging and a 2417 Criminal Intelligence Centre.
SAS is also instrumental in daily intelligence briefs and long-term strategic planning in the fight
against terrorist organisations.
The solution puts the latest criminal intelligence at the fingertips of troopers in the field. Using
the latest mobile SAS technology, patrol officers can instantly get analysis and alerts before they
move into action -- and possibly danger. "That's the whole idea of intelligence," said a State
Police spokesman. "Using it to take pro-active measures rather than simply reacting to crime."

A further advantage is that the technology breaks down barriers between vast amounts of

institutional intelligence that exist in a police officer's head and in the force's files. SAS provides
intelligence information to the officer on the streets who needs it.
SAS' advanced technology really begins to shine when an officer starts off virtually blind

and is forced to do a general search. The underpinning of the system is a free-text database
system providing rapid access, analysis and exploration of all information, both structured and
unstructured.
The key message from one of the solutions sponsors at the PSP: "Make the investment in
intelligence because the investment pays dividends. It's more than an obligation. We cannot
simply defer to our federal counterparts and consider our job done. Our analysts using SAS are
harnessing all these databases. We're the go-to people - when you need an answer, that's us,
and the information is good. We've turned into a huge resource that didn't exist before."

Florida Department of Corrections
Florida law enforcement agencies rely on the Department of Corrections for ad hoc assistance
in narrowing suspect lists for serial crimes. Using SAS to access historical corrections data
and analyse it for known criminal patterns and traits, the department can compile reports in a
matter of hours and export them to local police and sheriff departments to assist in the search
and apprehension of suspects.
SAS also makes it easy to track activities involving individual inmates, such as transfers,

disciplinary actions and positive drug tests. This information can be used to match random drug
testing results with demographic data, for example, so corrections officials can determine the
characteristics of drug users within the system and implement new policies to reduce drug use
in a prison facility.
With help from SAS, the Florida Department of Corrections has witnessed the importance
of combining, analysing and interpreting data from throughout the criminal justice system
- benefits that ultimately range from detecting and preventing crime to optimising state

resources.

iSTORIES

-

Law Enforcement and Crime Control Data Sharing

SAS" is used to provide
credible information to
protect the public and
administer justice. @
G
*.&!

London - Metropolitan Police Service
The team had a clear vision of what was needed and has ensured that the project works
towards the delivery of benefits for operational policing, such as officer safety, policing
effectiveness and public protection."
. ..
.
.

The project currently focuses on information recorded in key policing systems. Work is
:

.

.

directed to data identified by stakeholders and users as most valuable to their job. Three main
approaches are employed to improve quality:

.
.

.

.

Enhanced data entry validation to help police officers to get it right first time.
Data quality reports sent directly to boroughs for review and action (see box).
Identificationand dissemination of data quality best practice.
Over the past year the Data Quality project has brought remarkable improvements to the quality
of MPS data. The project provides each MPS borough with a view of its data quality. There are
several reports, of differing levels of granularity, to support different types of user, but at the
highest level, data quality performance is represented by a Red, Amber and Green (RAG) status.
At the original baseline, only one borough demonstrated "Excellent" data quality. Now (as of
December 2008), almost all boroughs have "Good" or "Excellent" data quality.
.

Data quality is measured against standards based on business rules and processes. Where

,

appropriate, the IMPACT data quality standards have been applied. At present, around two
hundred business rules across three major MPS applications (Crime, Custody, Stops) are
monitored. Missing and invalid data, as well as inconsistencies such as dates that do not align
with other information in a record, raise exceptions, which are reported upon.
The benefits to the MPS include improving the ability to find and link information on offenders.
This increases public and officer safety and contributes to greater efficiency. It enhances

j

confidence in the data, increasing the likelihood that it will be used and trusted by MPS staff

:

and partner agencies.

Criminal Justice

..
. .

.

South African Justice
The Department of Justice and Constitutional Development in South Africa (DoJ) is using
SAS for planning in order to promote better service delivery and management of its budget.
Decisions have to be made and problems addressed quickly in order to meet the requirements
of the court system, therefore a flexible and timely implementation, with further development
being driven by user requirements, was a critical success factor of this project.

,

.

0

l

'ISTOMER SUCC'""
South Africa is sub-divided into provinces and magisterial districts within the courts have a 3
tier structure, namely district, regional and high court. As part of this project, crime levels and
court statistics were mapped to magisterial districts in order to determine the effectiveness of
the criminal courts and to establish if each court has enough resources to deal with its volume
of criminal cases.
The SAS solution gives each district the responsibility for the on-going monitoring and
management of resources within the department in order to ensure that justice at a local level
is dispensed effectively and efficiently. It facilitates the allocations of resources to the courts
across the country according to the needs in that area, as well as effectively catering for future
requirements based on factual assessments and financial modelling.
To optimise the service delivery of the justice system the DoJ investigated the demand on and
supply of services. Police station-level reported crime statistics, economic data, incarcerated
people by location, offence type, sentence, etc. and demographic information was used to
predict demand. Human resources which impact justice service delivery, the number of cases
by type and spend time on cases were used to forecast supply.
The solution also involved the development of a Geographical Information System (GIS) for
spatial analysis and visual representation of both demand and supply related data. Using the
matrices and the crime data in SAS, the crime levels per magisterial district could be calculated
and imported into the GIS, relationally joined with the spatial data and mapped per magisterial
district.

Washington DC Court Services
The Court Services and Offender SupervisionAgency (CSOSA) is the federal executive branch
agency responsible for supervising 15,000 parolees, probationers and supervised releases in
the District of Columbia. CSOSA uses SAS@Analytics to manage staff workload more efficiently,
study recidivism patterns and keep district residents safe.
SAS provides multiple solutions that help the agency gather data from numerous sources,
analyse it and make it available to all staff members from parole and probation officers to the
director, to aid in making smart choices. Using SAS, CSOSA has created SMART-STAT, which
helps the agency work smarter.

CUSTOMEh SUCCESS STORIESBorder Management - Maintaining Secure, Efficient
Borders
-

.....................................................................................
Illegitimate Travel and Trade - Customs
Odyssey - The Strategic Pan-European Ballistics Intelligence PlatForm for
Combating Organised Crime and Terrorism
This platform has the objective of developing a secure interoperable platform for automated
information analysis to combat organised crime and terrorism. It has the ability to search
for information obtained using advanced semantic knowledge extraction and data mining
techniques to facilitate fast and responsible decision making across the EU. SAS was chosen as
part of a consortium of specialists including military, police, research and academic institutions.

Border Control including the use of Biometrics
SAS is used by one of the world's largest border control agencies which has very high rates
of crossings. It is using SAS and other advanced electronic technologies to provide a way of
collecting and analysing information on everyone who travels to or from the country in question.
Information is gathered on all travellers, passengers and crew entering or leaving the country by
air, sea or rail.
It allows the agency to identify passengers who are potential risks and alert the relevant

authorities. Other technologies such as biometrics will ensure people are identified securely and
effectively.

Korea Customs Service improves Detection of Illegal Cargo
The Korea Customs Service (KCS) is a government agency established to secure national
revenues by controlling imports and exports for the economic development of South Korea
and to protect domestic industry through contraband control. It is responsible for the customs
clearance of imported goods as well as tax collection at the customs border.
The agency is also concerned with areas such as social security, health care, environmental
protection, and overall control of foreign transactions covering false indication of origin,
infringement of intellectual property rights, illegal foreign exchange transactions and money
laundering.
Over the last decade, Korea's imported goods more than doubled as the size of the KCS work
force remained the same. This forced the agency to find an effective way of detecting illegal
cargo using existing resources and without being able to inspect all imported goods. KCS tried
to promote greater efficiency and the use of selective inspections, but the results fell short of
expectations.

Charged with screening
enormous amounts of data
from bills of lading, ship
manifests and passenger
travel lists, a large defence
agency uses SAS to
efficiently flag suspicious
data and reduce data errors
resulting in heightened
threat awareness and
terrorism prevention.

r

CUSTO

UCCESS
STORIE
-*
rd-s*-x
3
S
m
&
;.

*S

I
I

In the previous risk management system, the subjects of inspection were selected based on the
importers, items or foreign providers of illegal cargo detected in the past.
So when illegal importers changed the names, items or foreign providers, KCS was at
a disadvantage. Moreover, as the patterns of illegal imports changed, computer experts
targeted different kinds of cargo for inspection without taking into account the experience and
know-how of customs agents in the field. Consequently, there have been continuous complaints
against the customs inspection by the customs staff and the general public.
KCS decided to implement an advanced risk management strategy to deal with these
complaints. It specified three areas for innovation -the system for targeting illegal cargo,
the actual method of inspection and the expertise of inspection personnel - to achieve total
improvement of the inspection process. The new system enabled scientific and rational
customs services. Currently, more than 400 staff members in the field are using the advanced
risk management system. Upon a request for customs service, the personnel in charge of
import inspection can immediately decide whether to inspect the cargo. Now they can detect
potentially illegal attempts for customs clearance on the spot through KCS' know-how and data
mining techniques.
The SAS solution enabled more specific and accurate targeting of illegal cargo. For instance, the
number of potentially illegal factors increased from 77 to 163. As a result, the detection rate for
important items, as well as the total rate, increased by more than 20 per cent.

China Customs
China turned to SAS to modernise duty collection, reduce smuggling across borders and
improve trade processing and customs logistics. After implementing and using the SAS solution
for less than two years, hidden administrative risks have been detected, $20 million in duty has
been retrieved and the solution has been distributed to 37 regional customs districts.

International Law Enforcement Agency
An international law enforcement agency fights terrorism, human trafficking, cyber-crime
and transnational crime using SAS. Using an automated and centralised information platform,
analysts have experienced a 20 per cent time saving and can now easily access and manage
criminal data from any source without manual coding.
By collecting and analysing data on all travellers and passengers entering or leaving the country
by air, sea or rail, the agency can identify passengers who are potential risks and then alert the
relevant authorities.

Fusion Centres and lnformation Sharing
.....................................................................................
Sharing Information across Disparate Agencies
Michigan Intelligence Operations Centre
The State of Michigan deploys a SAS solution to deploy the state's primary criminal intelligence
platform, which provides access to more than 600 law enforcement agencies, more than
21,000 certified police officers as well as numerous state and federal departments.

That platform, known as the Michigan Criminal Intelligence System (MCIS), is run by the
Michigan State Police and is used in the Michigan Intelligence Operations Centre for Homeland
Security (MIOC), the state's fusion centre.
The MIOC use the SAS intelligence system to gather, collate, track, analyse and disseminate
terrorism intelligence information. Additionally, the system is used to counteract conventional
criminal activity, including street gangs, organised crime and high-volume crimes. Just as
important is the SAS product's capability to assist the Michigan State Police in compliance with
State and Federal laws pertaining to the protection of citizens' privacy rights. "The State of
Michigan deployment will be the largest in the U.S." said Neil Schlisserman, of SAS Americas.
"Law enforcement in Michigan will benefit greatly from a common intelligence platform for
information sharing as well as SAS' engaging approach to commercial off-the-shelf (COTS)
software deployment and customer service."
The SAS intelligence system is used for deconfliction and threat assessment, and provides
the foundation for an Intelligence-led Policing (ILP) approach. Besides CAD and RMS, SAS also
integrates data from disparate sources, such as case and gangs management, Suspicious
Activity Reporting (SAR), and confidential informant management.

Abl-

_

SAS

_.

SAS is the leader in business analytics software and services, and the largest independent
vendor in the business intelligence market. Through innovative solutions delivered within an
integrated framework, SAS helps customers at more than 65,000 sites improve performance
and deliver value by making better decisions faster. Since 1976 SAS has been giving customers
around the world THE POWER TO KNOWm.

PUBLIC SECURITY

0

Law Enforcement

a
0

Fusion Centre

m
0

National Security

@ Border Management

For more information, please email gbrpsbumarketingOsas.com
SAS and all other SAS lnstltute Inc. product or mice names are registered trademarks or trademarks of SAS
lnstltute Inc. In the USA and other countnes @ lndfcates USA reglstratlon Other brand and product names are
trademarks of thew respectwe companies Copyright O 2013, SAS lnst~tuteInc. All nghts reserved.

