Advanced Research
& Technology Ltd

AR&T
Advanced Research & Technology Ltd. is an innovative
company, specialising in the development of electronic
technology, from concept and research phases through
to commercially viable projects. The company provides a
comprehensive research, design, production engineering
and project management service.

Services
AR&T's services may be tailored to suit the needs of
most organisations requiring technical support for the
development of electronic or Information Technology
based projects. Services are not limited to technology
based companies, but are extended to organisations
whose business activities require only occasional design
or consultant services. For these organisations, where
the cost of a full time IT or electronics R&D department
would be uneconomic, AR&T provide an innovative
solution.
AR&T's aim is to work closely with clients to acquire the
detailed and project specific knowledge that will support
the efficient introduction of new technology. When
required, AR&T staff may be temporarily transferred to
work in client's premises to expedite those parts of a
project needing interactive commu nication with other
team members.

Experience

AR& T engineers and designers have many years of practical
experience in their individual fields. They have accrued the
'know how' to repeatedly create successful and profitable
designs and to avoid expensive pitfalls.

AR&T's involvement may encompass any one, or all, of the
stages of research, design and development, including:-

• Market Analysis
• Basic Requirement Capture
• Conceptual Design
• Technological Research
• Feasibility Studies
• Quality Plans
• Project Plans and Cost Analysis
• Life Cycle Cost Analysis
• Detailed System and Sub-System Specifications
• Mechanical, Electrical and Software Module Definitions
• Mechanical Design

Areas of expertise include;• Project Management
• Computer Science and Programming

• Electronic Design
• Software Design

• Video Compression and Encryption

• Design Reviews

• Information Technology and Website Design

• Quality Audits

• Graphic Design

• Availability, Reliability and Maintainability Analyses

• Analogue Circuit Design

• Safety Analyses

• Digital Circuit Design
• RF Circuit Design

• Technical Writing and Illustration
• Manufacturing Information

• Audio and Video Equipment and System Design
• Prototype Manufacture
• Visual Display Technologies
• Transport Telematics
• Simulation and Training Systems

• Functional Test and Acceptance Specifications
• Environmental Test Specifications

• Communication, Monitoring and Control Systems

• System Integration

•EMC

• Development System Testing

NetWateh@

1nte111gent video systems

Video survelllanee 'or Ports and Harbours
The Challenges
Protecting Ports and Harbours from security threats is difficult and expensive. Traditional site surveillance depends on the
challenging task of maintaining continuous, reliable vigilance by security personnel.
Effective protection from sea borne threats has the additional challenge of trying to detect small craft in relatively large
areas of water.
Monitoring fences and responding to false alarms from shore-based installations is time consuming and can be labour
intensive.

New Solutions
Recent advances in 'Intelligent Video' systems, combined with reductions in the cost of Thermal Imaging cameras, have
enabled better ways to detect potential threats when compared to traditional surveillance techniques.
Thermal Imaging cameras have the ability to detect very small changes in the surface temperature of objects at great
distance, for instance it is possible to produce a thermographic image (temperature map) of the earth from space. Tl
cameras have been in use for military and scientific applications for many years but the technology was expensive and
needed regular maintenance. Improvements in the manufacturing process have now made Tl cameras more affordable.

Relatively low cost Tl cameras can easily depict the thermal image of a small
vessel at several kilometres, they need no light whatsoever to function; the
coldest, darkest night presents no challenge. Objects are detected by small
temperature differences on their surface. However, the scene depicted by a Tl
camera needs careful interpretation, in most cases the human eye is an
inappropriate tool to detect objects that may be classified as potential threats. This
is where 'visual intelligence' plays an important role; such systems can be given a
set of instructions to determine if objects in a thermal image meet pre-set warning
criteria, and if they do, to raise an alarm.
The picture below is a composite view from ·three Tl cameras showing the
protection zone (in red) around a tanker off-loading Liquefied Natural Gas at a pier and terminal. Objects conforming to
pre-defined criteria entering the zone alert security staff.

Benefits of Intelligent Video Systems
Unlike human surveillance operatives, Intelligent Video Systems suffer no strain or boredom from monotonous tasks, they
provide a true 24n capability and are much easier to sustain than their human counterparts, whose optimum
concentration is maintained for only a few minutes. 'Real time' analysis of complex scenes by modem machine vision
techniques is more consistent and can be considerably more accurate than reliance on human eyes.
The use of Intelligent Video Systems will eventually transform the way companies and governments protect high value
assets. The realization that machine 'visual intelligence' can be more reliable and cost effective than humans for routine
surveillance will enable users to reduce surveillance budgets and increase the effectiveness of response teams. Budget
allocations can be shifted in favour of response teams and the equipment needed to facilitate appropriate responses.

RADAR
In general, it is possible to obtain more data from a Thermal Image than from RADAR, especially where targets are not
equipped with RADAR reflectors. Using Tl cameras and 'visual intelligence'. range and bearing can be obtained from
multiple targets and displayed on a PC monitor alongside the visual image of the targets. Detection distances can range
continuously from a few tens of meters out to the horizon. RADAR system can have difficulty displaying this continuous
range without adjustment. Some RADAR systems, using surface wave technology, can 'see' over the horizon but,
because of the relatively long wavelength , they cannot show sufficient detail to establish threat, only presence. Tl
cameras and Visual Intelligence systems can perform an important role, alongside RADAR, in providing short and
medium range surveillance.

The Bigger Picture
Visual Intelligence Systems present many opportunities to improve surveillance and security. They range from the basic
concept outlined above, to tracking objects, detecting interaction of objects with 'Virtual Sensors' placed in views of the
ocean , plotting detected objects into maps, determining range, bearing , latitude and longitude of detected objects .... etc.
the list is considerable. Once the geographic position of a suspect in known, powerful visual cameras or other means can
be automatically directed to provide detailed visual images for threat assessment and co-ordinated response.
The system can also be used to monitor berthed vessels and vessels at anchor, thus providing protection for crew and
cargo.
Furthermore, IP networks can be used to connect intelligent video systems together providing a multi-disciplinary
dimension to security. Video data can be instantly available to Harbourmaster, Immigration Control, Police, Homeland
Defence, Coast Guard, Military, etc.
Networked Visual Intelligence Systems offer a comprehensive surveillance package for all types of vessel-berthing
facilities.
Fence lines can be monitored by multiple technologies,
including; motion detectors attached to fences, microphones, Tl
cameras and standard visual spectrum cameras. In this picture
'virtual sensors' (the red and yellow lines placed in the image)
are used to locate and track people by a visual intelligence
system.
All data from these multiple sources can be analysed by the
system and threat levels determined accordingly. Operators
can be presented with precise visual information regarding the
exact location of the threat in text and map form and can, if
appropriate, allow the system to initiate first line
'discouragement' in the form of illumination and verbal or
acoustic warnings at the location of the alarm event.
The sea threat elements of the system are fully compatible with
the land-based elements and form an easily managed
composite system requiring minimum user interaction.

The picture to the left shows an alternative view of the
pier and terminal, without the LNG tanker present,
again with the protection zone shown in red.
The movements of all objects, including people on the
pier, are plotted onto this scene and represented by
coloured dots. Anything crossing the red line from the
unprotected area into the protected area will raise an
alarm to draw the attention of security staff.
Visual Intelligence Systems are already in use at
strategically important sites in the UK and are proving
to be reliable and effective. AR& T believe the future will
see Visual Intelligence systems introduced at virtually
all sea terminals where high value assets are at risk.

Advanced Research & Technology Ltd. Unit 3 Castle Mount. Stuart Street, Mansfield, Notts. NG18 2NN www.ar-t.co.uk sales@ar-t.co.uk
Tel 01623 477320

NetWateh@

1nte111gentv1deosystems

Providing security Solutions for the Power Industry
w est ern Power Dist ribution case study
In 2006, when Western Power Distribution needed to upgrade their
CCTV systems In 26 depots In Wales and Western England, they
chose Advanced Research & Technology's 'NetWatch'
surveillance system to provide a cost efficient and reliable
solution.

The initial challenge was to provide a system that
would enable local depot staff to manage their own
site security during daytime operations, and central
office security staff to control and monitor the 26
depots at other times. The depots ranged from Milford
Haven in West Wales, to Redruth in Cornwall. The
central control is in Cardiff.
A system was required that was compatible with
existing communications infrastructure, could provide
the necessary video quality and would reliably alert
operators when it detected intruders. NetWatch was
the ideal choice.
NetWatch Video Data Servers, using Local Area
Networks for on-site communications and low cost
ADSL broadband for off-site communications, were
fitted in all the depots. This allows daytime staff to
manage local security from their own NetWatch
Surveillance Control Stations.

Allows operators to quickly locate people infringing
security
Provides sufficient information to enable operators to
direct identification I deterrence measures to the correct
geographic location(s)
Quicker response to potential threats
Releases operators to take on wider scope of activities
Extremely low false trigger rate

0
Improved site vigilance
0
Minimal operator interaction required
12 months after completion of the depot systems,
Western Power placed an order for the system to be
extended to 37 electricity sub stations; these are now all
on line to the complete satisfaction of the client, with the
Cardiff office currently having control of about 70 sites.
The system is now rolled out to more major power and
LNG distribution networks.
Advanced Research & Technology Ltd. Unit 3 Castle Mount, Stuart Street, Mansfield, Notts. NG18 2NN www.ar-t.co.uk sales@ar-t.co.uk
Tel 01623 477320

video systems
-

Application Areas

Airport

IP Network
Immigration Control

Highways Agency

HM Customs

Surveillance and Control Areas

video systems

IP Concept

NetWatch is an integral component of video surveillance systems, providing network interfaces to cameras and the management, storage and display of
video data throughout the system. Separate data sheets provide detail on each component; this overview shows the communication relationship between
components and over page, a conceptual view of how the system may be deployed.

Cameras and Camera Interface Servers

IP Network

...........................................................................
MIST Servers
Video or Tl:
Cameras l
Il
·········································································
Video Wall & Servers

....................................
l\/ideo Data Archive
l\/ideo Data Servers

Contact: Sales
Tel 01489 892030
Unit 3 Castle Mount, Stuart Street
Mansfield, Notts. NG18 2NN
www.ar-t.co.uk sales@ar-t. co. uk

Adva nced Research
& Technology Ltd

video systems
Camera Interface Servers (CIS) capture video from cameras and streams
video data to local storage devices and the network. Operators at Surveillance
Control Stations have control over any number of CIS units and can command
them to: control active cameras, download current and historic video data,
control the Visual Motion Detectors, update the Alarm Status lists etc. Camera
Interface Servers also provide physical interfaces for PTZ control, Eternal
Alarm Inputs, External Alarm output, Audio devices, Local Area Networks,
ADSL and PSTN Networks etc.
Video Data Servers (VOS) provide a networked archive of video data allowing any Surveillance Control
Station to replay or download historic data (typically: from a few seconds old, to many months). VDS's
are employed to provide a data backup increasing system availability. They are used particularly where
the primary CIS may be at risk from criminal damage or where radio networks may be temporarily
unavailable.
Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) Developed by AR&T for site traffic management, the
system is fully compatible with the NetWatch suite of products - using the NetWatch 'Surveillance Control
Station' for the human interface. The system identifies and reads car number plates on vehicles in motion
and provides alphanumeric output data from the source video. This data cah then be compared with user
data for correlation . Depending on the rules applied, vehicles may then be admitted or stopped by
automatic barriers. Vehicle presence at sites can be verified as they can be automatically logged in and
out.
Video Wall Servers (VWS) route selected video directly from CIS's or VDS's
to selected video wall screens. Screen views are set from Surveillance Control
Stations configured with the appropriate privileges. Video Walls need not be
directly connected to the associated SCS, they can be located anywhere on
the network, enabling remote viewers to access current and archive video
under control of the associated SCS. Each screen can display multiple images
of 1, 2, 6, or 9 camera views. Any number of screens can be used.
Video Editing Work Station (VIEWS) this software can reside on
the SCS or on a separate workstation. It enables video to be viewed,
enhanced and edited 'off line' in preparation to be used as evidence.
Clips can be created and 'Personal Privacy' editing can be
accomplished. In addition, a ViEWS workstation can perform video
format conversions.
Video Replay Software (VRS) part of the ViEWS package VRS
enables video captured on a NetWatch system to be viewed 'off line',
mainly to facilitate replay of NetWatch video data to authorised third
parties such as police and in courts of law. VRS is distributed under
licence, but free of charge, in order not to inhibit the free exchange of
authorised video data.
Evidence Submission Manger (ESM) an optional part of the ViEWS software
provides the management and database tools to maintain and demonstrate
compliance with the Data Protection Act in relation to surveillance systems. It
contains all the features of NetWatch ViEWS, produces video evidence on CD or DVD
media and provides a full audit trail of all actions and processes undertaken up to
the point of release of the media to third parties. ESM produces all release forms,
receipts, CD labels and management reports up to, and including closure of the
incident where this is appropriate.
EyeLynx provides an entry-level to Networked Digital CCTV, allowing small businesses and shops to
benefit from the infrastructure provided by larger Town Centre or corporate schemes. EyeLynx is fully
compatible with the NetWatch Suite of products and can improve the effectiveness of surveillance at
commercial sites of any type.
AR& T Ltd. www.ar-t.co.uk : sales@ar-t.co.uk : Tel. 01623 477320

netwateh product guide rear.doc 18/02110

Advanced Research & Technology
Intelligent Surveillance Systems for 21st Century Asset Protection
Developed by AR&T Ltd ' NetWatch' is a suite of networked intelligent video surveillance
products providing security conscious organisations with the all tools needed to manage IT
based CCTV security.
The use of Intelligent Video Systems will eventually transform the way companies and governments
protect high value assets. The realisation that machine 'visual intelligence' can be more reliable and
cost effective than humans for routine surveillance will enable users to reduce surveillance budgets and
increase the effectiveness of response teams and prosecutions.
c.,,,...u

ea...... 1ntortK1t
lCIS)

5
11
-'"

C:,1nd\nology

=!

vidooor

NetWatch
is
modular,
scaleable,
' networkable' and enables the worldwide
exchange
of
high
quality
digital
surveillance video. It provides an essential
system
management
surveillance
structure to assist in combating crime and
terrorism .
The
NetWatch
suite
of
products
guarantees end users have a fully
compatible system, able to detect
incidents, to communicate with , and
transfer video data to all required
locations without loss of quality or data
integrity.

Surveillance Control Station (SCS) provides the human interface
with NetWatch servers; Surveillance Control Stations enable
operators to control all system functions and to view all live and
recorded video. They also provide tools for camera control,
downloading video, audio communication, map functions, and
server configuration and maintenance.
Each remote server maintains its own event logs, recording the
operational status of all its cameras and hardware. The SCS
provides operator access to these event logs enabling maintenance
and system audit.
Motion Image Separation Technology (MIST} a reliable and
sophisticated object detection and tracking system providing an
early indication of intrusion from objects (including people) entering
or moving through restricted areas or routes. The system detects
and tracks objects that obey a set of qualifying rules . When these
objects cross 'Virtual Trip Wires' placed in the video image by the
system administrator, the system raises an alert for the operator
and gives a clear and precise visual presentation for the cause of
the alert. The picture shows the thermal image of a boundary fence
protected by 'virtual trip wires' draw into the NetWatch MIST view .
Also available in a rapid deployment version - MIST-RD
Sea Ranger - enables new
levels of intrusion detection
for Coast, Ports, Docks and
Using
a
Harbours.
of
standard
combination
vision and thermal imaging
cameras, ' Sea Ranger' detects
and tracks all moving objects
in the cameras fields of view.
Sections of sea and dock areas can be designated 'restricted' . The area enclosed in the red lines in the
picture shows the concept.
AR& T Ltd. www.ar-t.co.uk : sales@ar-t.co.uk : Tel. 01623 477320

netwatch product guide frontdoc 18/02110

NetWOtClf'P1nte111gent video systems

M

Image separation Technology
Motion Image Separation Techno/og/ (MIST) is a new
and sophisticated object rletect.ion and tracking
system capable of providing afl early indication of
Intrusion from objects (including people) entering or
moving through restricted areas or routes.
The system detects and tracks objects that conform to sets
of rules. When these 'objects' interact with 'Virtual Sensors'
placed in the video image by the system administrator, the
system raises an alert for the operator and gives a clear
and precise visual presentation for the cause of the alert.
Virtual Sensors' include: Virtual Trip Wires (VTW) , Virtual
Cages (VTG) and Virtual Warning Zones \lfWZ) all of
which can be drawn into the scene using interactive tools.
Tracked objects leave paths from where they were first
detected to their current position.

Used in conjunction with the NetWatch CCTV product range, MIST can activate hi-resolution normal vision PTZ
cameras to home in on and record the virtual sensor activation . MllST s ervers record pre and post alarm video.
MIST can operate with multiple targets, showing tracks of past positions and predicted future routes based on
general heading. Path prediction maintains object tracking even when an object is temporarily obscured.

MIST Features
• Fully integrated with the NetWatch product range
• Compatible with most Thermal Imaging cameras
• Operator notification when Tracked Objects interact
with Virtual Sensors
• Detection rules configurable to suit application
requirements

User Benefits
• Extremely low false trigger rate
• Improved site vigilance
• Minimal operator interaction required
• Quicker response to potential threats
• Reduced operating costs

When equipped with Tl cameras, MIST detectors can provide reliable 24-hour intruder detection under all weather
conditions on land, sea and air at ranges of up to 30kM .
Applications include: asset protection, search and rescue, process control etc.
In conjunction with NetWatch, MIST can be built into large corporate or military
networks. Such systems can then detect remote events and distribute the
resulting video data to all locations on the network.
All the surveillance system management tools available with other NetWatch
products are equally applicable to MIST.MIST servers may be retrofitted to
existing video systems to improve performance and reduce operator stress. The
visual displays are easy to understand and simple to operate
AR&T support clients through the planning stages and can configure MIST
systems on client's premises if required .

MIST identifies potential threats and, using the NetWatch infrastructure, alerts users and enables
informed responses.

Contact: Sales
Tel 01489 892030
Unit 3 Castle Mount, Stuart Street
Mansfield, Notts. NG18 2NN
www.ar-t.co. uk sales@ar-t.co. uk

Advanced Research
& Technology Ltd

NetWOteh®

video

sea Ranger
Providing unprecedented levels of intrusion detection for Coast, Ports, Docks and Harbours

Using a combination of standard vision and thermal imaging cameras, 'Sea Ranger' detects and tracks all moving
objects in the cameras fields of view. Sections of sea and dock areas can be designated 'restricted'. The area
enclosed in the red lines in the pictures shows the concept.

Screen maps display the images of detected
objects, their latitude and longitude together
with bearing and distance from the detecting
camera.
Tracks show the route the object has taken
and the calculated position where it will cross
'Virtual Trip Wires' drawn into the scene.
PTZ cameras can be automatically directed to
take close up pictures of objects entering
'restricted' areas.
There is no limit to the number of Tl cameras
or normal vision cameras that can be deployed
on a system.
Vast areas can be covered with detection
ranges up to 30 Km using Tl cameras.

Sea Ranger is fully compatible with AR&T's NetWatch
Intelligent Video Systems and Video data can be made
available, via IP networks, to any NetWatch Surveillance
Control Station located anywhere in the world .
All the surveillance system management tools available
with other NetWatch products are equally applicable to
Sea Ranger.

0

Reliably detects vessels and people entering prohibited
areas

0
0
0

Better detection capabilities than human eye
Monitors the designated areas 100% of the time
Reduces operator fatigue and boredom that can result
in security lapses

0

Allows operators to quickly locate vessels and people
infringing security

NetWatch and MIST systems monitor fence lines and
open areas, bringing all the elements of CCTV
surveillance into a single easy to manage system .

0

Provides sufficient information to enable operators to
direct identification I deterrence measures to the correct
geographic location(s)

In use by government, military and major utility
companies with over 1000 installations, NetWatch is
established as a reliable and effective system
contributing to the fight against terrorism and crime.

0
0
0

Extremely low false trigger rate

0

Improved site vigilance

0

Minimal operator interaction required

Quicker response to potential threats
Releases operators to take on wider scope of activities

NetWateh®1nte111gent

video

systems

Rapid Deployment Sul'Velllonce
MIST-RD assesses visual intelligence at remote locations and alerts operators when predefined criteria are detected in the images.
The system can be deployed covertly and with minimum effort. It provides all the functionality of Advanced Research
& Technology's NetWatch and MIST servers in a small, rugged, weatherproof case. The system is battery powered ,
includes an optional wind up tower and a choice of cameras and PTZ units. It has optional interfaces for bidirectional audio communication, external sensor inputs, and external volt free outputs.
MIST-RD is intended for networking, either wirelessly or by direct connection. The system is fully compatible with
standard AR&T NetWatch Surveillance Control Stations and any number of MIST-RD surveillance servers can be
networked to provide wide area coverage.
Remote MIST-RD servers can be configured wirelessly using a fully portable and field deployable ruggedised Tablet
PC. The same Tablet PC can be used for all monitoring and control functions. Options are available for 3G and
satellite communication.

The system is designed specifically to address the issues surrounding
long-range covert surveillance. The system is easily transported in the
boot of a car; it requires no mains power or wired communications and
can be deployed by a single person.
MIST-RD:

0

0
0
0
0
0

Improves vigilance - alerts operators when detection criteria are recognised
Records and distributes audio and video evidence
Enables quicker identification of potential threats
Requires minimal operator interaction
Has networkable data backup to provide resilience against hostile action
Provides a data management system compliant with the data protection act
MIST-RD Server Kit options include:
Mast-mounted MIST-RD server with a
portable Tablet PC resting on the base

0 Carry Case & Camera Cable Set
0 Separate Battery and Battery Case
0 Tablet PC

0
0

Cameras; Including Thermal Imaging
Pan, Tilt and Zoom units

0 Extendable Camera Tower

0
0

External Audio Functions
External Sensor Functions

0 3G communications adapter

0 Data link to satellite communications

Contact: Sales
Tel 01489 892030
Unit 3 Castle Mount, Stuart Street
Mansfield, Notts. NG18 2NN
www.ar-t.co.uk sales@ar-t.co.uk

Advanced Research
& Technology Ltd

NetWotch®,nte111gem video systems
SC$ survelllonce Control Station
Surveillance Control Stations provide the human interface with networked servers;
Interface Servers, Video Data Servers and Video Wall Servers.
Surveillance Control Stations enable operators to control all system functions and to view all live and recorded video.
They also provide tools for camera control, downloading video, audio communication , map functions, and server
configuration and maintenance.
Each CIS maintains its own event logs, recording the operational status of all its cameras and its hardware. The SCS
provides operator access to these event logs to enable maintenance and audit of the system. The SCS also provides
password protected CD and DVD creation tools allowing video data to be exported securely to third parties.

Features
• Camera view selection, normal, motion, replay & edit.
• Camera auto cycle definition & replay tools.
• Play back individual cameras while viewing real-time
camera set.
• Synchronized event log & video data download from
servers.
• Operator activity logs maintained & available for
audit/evidence.
• Event grouping to enable operators to identify exceptions.
• Remote configuration, restart & close down of recorders.
• Capture single frame to clipboard.
• Telephone directory for dial up connection sites.
• Viewing Alarm log entries for cameras, individually or as a
combination list.
• Download recorder event log file.
• Auto I manual time synchronisation for all connected
recorders.

• Monitor activity log. Contains date and time, user logged
on I off, cameras viewed I replayed and downloads made.
• Full duplex point to audio combination with selected
recorder I camera.
• Supports function authorisation levels of use implemented
through windows user groups.
• Motion detection Alarms - audio + visual prompts

Benefits
•
•
•
•
•

Easy access to data from local and distributed sites.
Reduced management costs.
Easy distribution of data.
Easy management of data protection legislation.
Online review of recorded video data without interrupting
the recording process.
• Improved security through smart alarm monitoring.
• Improved vigilance.

Contact: Sales
Tel 01489 892030
Unit 3 Castle Mount, Stuart Street
Mansfield, Notts. NG18 2NN
www.ar-t.co.uk sa/es@ar-t.co.uk

Advanced Research
& Technology Ltd

NetWOtCh®,nte1111111nt video systems
Video Woll server
Used in conjunction with Surveillance Control Stations, Video Wall Servers
selected video directly
from Camera Interface Servers or Video Data Servers to selected video wall screens. Each VWS sits
between the LAN and two screens of any physical size. Each screen can display m ltiple images of 1, 2, 6,
or 9 camera views. Any number of screens can be used.
Screen views are set from a Surveillance Control Station configured with the appropriate privileges.
Video Walls need not be directly connected to the associated SCS, they can be located anywhere on the network,
providing remote viewers with access to both current and archive video under control of the associated SCS.

This screen dump shows a 6-view screen on a single monitor, each view is labelled with camera location,
time of view and an icon showing alarm status

1nte111gent video systems

ViEWS® Video Editing Workstation
The ViEWS package provides a powerful video analysis, editing and enhancement capability o the NetWatch
Suite. Video can be reviewed, analysed to find specific events, broken into sample clips or bu t up into multi·
camera large clips. Video clips can be enhanced and edited to include personal privacy (seiective blurring).
Video can be reproduced in native format (sub master) or in any standard Windows video formats (copy).
Video is usually downloaded from the NetWatch system , but ViEWS provides a PAL input allowing legacy VCR tapes
to be processed. Video evidence can be exported to CD or DVD media, or to a PAL output, in order that SVHS tapes
can be generated on legacy equipment.

Analysis and Search Tools
Video analytics enable ViEWS to automatically search for objects that move into or out of selected areas. Set the
search running and the system will notify you audibly when it has detected an object, it then stops the play sequence
for operator review. Notice the rectangle used to localise the search area in the second picture.

This picture shows a service road running
alongside a depot.

This picture shows the first instance of a vehicle
using the service road

Enhanced Enlarged Version

Contact: Sales
Tel 01489 892030
Unit 3 Castle Mount, Stuart Street
Mansfield, Notts. NG18 2NN
www.ar-t.co.uk sales@ar-t.co.uk

Advanced Research
& Technology Ltd

video systems

VIEWS®Video Editing wol'ksmtion
The ViEWS software suite also includes a powerful digital v ideo playback and analysis package. The one off
ViEWS licence permits the user to copy this playback software onto all CDs produced by ViEWS containing digital
video .nvs files. In addition to providing a general purpose video replay function , the Video Player package enables
users to view time synchronised multiple images in separate 'windows' on PC monitors.

User Benertts
• Easy to use
• Easy to distribute video data
• Reduced costs of managing video data
• Provides a single station comprehensive video
editing and enhancement tool.

•
•

This screen shot shows the selective blurring function
where individual faces can be obscured to preserve
privacy.

VIEWS Functions and Tools
• Seamless integration with NetWatch Evidence
Submission Manager and Surveillance Control
Station Software
• Networked connectivity to NetWatch surveillance
suite
• CD and DVD Exportable Media
• Video Brightness and Contrast enhancement
transform
• Video inter picture integration transform
• Video picture resolution re-sampling transform
• Video picture rotation transform
• Video picture clipping transform
• Picture object search transform
netwa1x:h views rear.doc - subject to change without notice - AR&T Ltd. 18/01/2012

Seamless integration into NetWatch Suite allows a
fast and easy way to prepare evidence.
Provides a platform to process recorded video and
redistribute the processed video on a standard
media.
This screen shot show the selective inclusion function
where the entire shot is blurred except for selected
individuals.

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

•

In picture annotation tools
Personal privacy blurring tools
Video import I export including - AVI , NVS, NVSA,
VMW
Multiple windows video CODEC support
Powerful video time line navigation tools. including
variable rate forwards and backwards replay.
Clipboard support for image capture
Support
for dual
timeline
video
editing
(compensating
for
unsynchronised
video
sequences)
Composite PAL video input and output

NetWateh®

1nte111gent video systems

ESM Evidence Submission Manager
ESM Functions

• Incident request logging - form completion of: who
made a request for video data, when the request
was made and the reason it was requested
• Video segment & still image capture review and
download from real-time CIS & VOS servers to the
ESM server
• Control of the Surveillance Control Station and
Replay Software time synchronised to database
record
• All review activity is recorded time I date along
with operator and any third party reviewer present.
• Expiry warning for video evidence that has not
been downloaded from the real-time system

• Incident evidence management:
• Booking in returned evidence and the location of
the evidence
• A log of when the evidence is destroyed, and I or
when system evidence and incidents are closed .
• Generation of media for incident evidence:
• Comprehensive report detailing a complete audit
trail of all activity involved including any still
images extracted from the system
• Exported video segments retained in original
codec and format as sub-master material
• The media contains an installable report viewer

• Management reports include:
• Incident involvement time by operator, total time
expended by all by operators on an incident

• Pass-word protected MS Word format reports
• Pass-word protected NetWatch Video Replay
Software for video segment replay

• Total time involved on incident servicing by
department

• Media label and receipt is generated automatically
when media is produced by the system each with
unique serial number
• Corporate logo's and definable report styles
supported

• Total number of media produced per incident in
period
• Total number produced by the department

• Provision for handheld bar code scanner
increasing the speed of incident data retrieval

ESM Benefits

Media

• Structured procedure for compliance with the Data
Protection Act

• DVD or CD media can be used.

• Structured and documented process for exporting
video evidence
• Speeds the evidence review process
• Simplifies video data collection and re-distribution
• Text logs and video data are time synchronised
improving the audit process
• Single point data management reduces risk of
errors
• Multiple camera and simultaneous multi-stream
video enable time synchronized evidence review
• Printable media writer included in the package guarantees compatibility and minimum processing
time
Views
ESM is an enhanced version of NetWatch ViEWS and
incorporates all the ViEWS basic and optional
functions. Please refer to the separate ViEWS data
sheet for more details.

• The date and unique serial number are printed in
numeric and barcode formats
• Corporate logo etc. can be printed on disk

0
Illlllll Ill lllll lllll lllll Ill lllllll llll IHI 1111111
00000114

00001/050207
();>It 1ol1

NetWatch®

1nm111gem video

systems

ESM Evidence Submission Manager
ESM provides tl1e management and database tools to maintain and demonstrate c mplian .."e ...vith the Data
Protection Act in relation to surveillance systems. It contains all the features of
ViEWS, produces
video evidence on CD or DVD media and provides a full audit trail of all actions an processes undertaken
up to t11e point of release of the media to third parties. ESM produces all release for17tSrRceipts, CD labels
and management reports up to, and including closure of the incident where this is appropriate.

The above shows a video segment being downloaded fro m an on line CIS to the Evidence Submission Manager server.

Screen review of an Evidence Report that will contain a full
audit trail of every action during the extraction of evidence
from the NetWatch system. This report is written to the
media disk along with the video sequences

--....___
_

-

---

Details from the Evidence Report showing the
integrity of the process for possible scrutiny in court:
Category:
Requested by:
Organisation:
Address:
Telephone:

Mobile:
Incident

___,,, . , .••, ••.•.• •

• • • • ••..:.:!:..' · ·- - - -

Robbery
Warner, David, PC4324
Blackpool Council

Description:

Copper Cable theft from secure
area Kings Depot

Subject

Description:

-·

Notes:
Tlmeline:

05/02/2007
12:29:43
12:40:02
12:47:35
12:50:52
12:52:40

Incident
record
created
operator Peter Vaughan

by

Session started by operator Peter
Vaughan Accompanied by Smith,
John, Mr, 12458
Created video Suspicious men in
secure yard
Created and downloaded still
image
Suspect 1 and 2
Session ended

Page 1 of5

Advanced R- r ch
It Technology U d •

Contact: Sales
Tel 01489 892030
Unit 3 Castle Mount, Stuart Street
Mansfield, Notts. NG18 2NN
www.ar-t.co.uk sales@ar-t.co.uk

Advanced Research
& Technology Ltd

NetWO'tCh®

1nm111gent su,,,11111ance Sysmms

came,o lnte,#ace se,11e,s fCISJ
Video aata se,11ers fVOSJ
CIS
The CIS performs the digital equivalent of the analogue 'recording' function; it captures video ifom cameras and
streams video data to local storage devices and the network.
Operators at Surveillance Control Stations have control over any number
of CIS units and can command them to: control active cameras, download
current and historic video data, control the Visual Motion Detectors, update
the Alarm Status lists etc.
Camera Interface Servers also provide physical interfaces for PTZ control,
External Alarm Inputs, External Alarm output, Audio devices, Local Area
Networks, ADSL and PSTN Networks etc.
The CIS provides the video intelligence for the system and is able to
analyse and process video data through mathematical 'Transforms' to
obtain accurate motion detection and to perform its functions in
accordance with user specific requirements.
VOS

Video Data Servers provide a networked archive of video data allowing authorised Surveillance Control Stations to
replay or download historic data (typically: from a few seconds, to many months old). VDS's can be employed to
provide a data backup to increase system availability. They are used particularly where the primary CIS may be at
risk from criminal damage or where radio networks may be temporarily unavailable. On larger systems they provide
extended data storage for archive material and video data distribution that otherwise may be overwritten at a CIS.
User Benefits
• Proven technology - in use for over 6 years by major
Government, Commercial and Industrial users
• Proven compatibility with major network hardware suppliers - no
compatibility risks when AR& T plan system
• Integrated features guaranteed to meet all common security
applications - lowest risk solution possible
• Highly cost effective solution for larger surveillance systems
• Surveillance system reach is only limited by the network
• Can be used over the Internet allowing long distance
surveillance
• Visual Intelligence reduces fatigue and loss of attention by
operators
• Mapping function allows operators to have better visualisation of
events
• Can be implemented to provide high availability of data for high
value assets
• Digital networked video can provide better quality and easier
access than analogue
• Wireless communication options provide cost effective data
distribution
• Integrated diagnostics help rapid fault location and reduce down
time
• UK design and manufacture - support available when required
• Bespoke hardware and software solutions available for nonstandard applications

Mounting Styles
NetWatch servers are supplied in 1U, 2U and
4U rack mountable case styles.
All styles are constructed with steel bodies
and stainless steel front panels providing
attractive, industrial quality, equipment and
control room fixtures.
LED indicators show operational status and
there are no user controls available on the
front panels. Front panels are held in place
with security screws to inhibit tampering.
1U
2U
4U

Contact: Sales
Tel 01489 892030
Unit 3 Castle Mount, Stuart Street
Mansfield, Notts. NG18 2NN
www.ar-t.co. uk sales@ar-t.co. uk

Advanced Research
& Technology Ltd

NetWateh@,nte111gent video systems
camera
Video

servers fCISJ
se,,,ers tVOSJ

CIS and VOS common features

CIS Only Features

• Resolutions supported 190 x 160 to 768 x 576
pixels
• Local recording storage capacity 250GB to 5.1TB
per unit
• Local RAID 1 supported
• Recording - continuous, scheduled or on motion
• Recording scheduled low I high frame rates
• Recording high frame rates on picture motion
• Recording and Alann on picture motion
• Recording to user defined time period 1 - 99 days
• LAN, WAN and WI Fl connectivity supported
• Dial (PSTN I OSTN) out on alann, voice and data
• Dial in (PSTN I OSTN) remote viewing
• Event logging
• Alann logging by camera data Stream
• Alann generation by MVO (Motion Video
Detection)
• Advanced Motion detection and tracking system
available; see MIST data sheet
• Full duplex audio communication with scs
• SNMP Support - Device Fault, Device Alann, Trap
Alann active, Trap Alann inactive
• HTTP Server support for internet browsers
• Communications Bandwidth Management tools,
High I Low I Auto quality settings
• Low to high speed IP connection protocols
• Communication perfonnance and monitoring
tools
• Remote recording protocol
• Internet connectivity, private and shared port
structure
• Full support for network multicasting
• Supports remote configuration, restarts, close
down, set-up and software revision infonnation
for servicing and commissioning functions
• Password protected configuration utilities and
sensitive camera views

• Multiple camera input capability 1 to 16

netwatch cis ws rear.doc - subject to change without notice - AR&T Ltd. 13'01/2012

• Multiple resolutions supported QCIF to 2CIF
• PAL and NTSC camera supported
• Frame rates from 1 to 25 f/S/C
• Visual and thermal spectrum camera support
• Camera and
association

external

equipment

event

• Camera real world co-ordinate position, FOV
range and bearing options
• Functional camera protocols supported
• Functional camera auto home and multiple
presets included
• Remote recording protocol included

VOS Only Features
• Multiple LAN video data streams, input
capability 1 to 10
• Frame rates from 1 to 10 f/S/Stream
• Camera data stream and external equipment
event association

Compact High Capacity Data Storage

NetWatch®,nte111gsnt video systems
came,a
Video

serve,s fCISJ
fVDSJ

CJS and VOS common features

CIS Only Features

• Resolutions supported 190 x 160 to 768 x 576
pixels
• Local recording storage capacity 250GB to 5.1TB
per unit
• Local RAID 1 supported
• Recording - continuous, scheduled or on motion
• Recording scheduled low I high frame rates
• Recording high frame rates on picture motion
• Recording and Alarm on picture motion
• Recording to user defined time period 1 - 99 days
• LAN, WAN and WI Fl connectivity supported
• Dial (PSTN I DSTN) out on alarm, voice and data
• Dial in (PSTN I DSTN) remote viewing
• Event logging
• Alarm logging by camera data Stream
• Alarm generation by MVD (Motion Video
Detection)
• Advanced Motion detection and tracking system
available; see MIST data sheet
• Full duplex audio communication with SCS
• SNMP Support - Device Fault, Device Alarm, Trap
Alarm active, Trap Alarm inactive
• HTTP Server support for internet browsers
• Communications Bandwidth Management tools,
High I Low I Auto quality settings
• Low to high speed IP connection protocols
• Communication performance and monitoring
tools
• Remote recording protocol
• Internet connectivity, private and shared port
structure
• Full support for network multicasting
• Supports remote configuration, restarts, close
down, set-up and software revision information
for servicing and commissioning functions
• Password protected configuration utilities and
sensitive camera views

• Multiple camera input capability 1 to 16

netwatch cis Yds rear.doc · subject to change without notice-AA&T ltd. 13/01/2012

• Multiple resolutions supported QCIF to 2CIF
• PAL and NTSC camera supported
• Frame rates from 1 to 25 f/S/C
• Visual and thermal spectrum camera support
• Camera and
association

external

equipment

event

• Camera real world co-ordinate position, FOV
range and bearing options
• Functional camera protocols supported
• Functional camera auto home and multiple
presets included
• Remote recording protocol included

VOS Only Features
• Multiple LAN video data streams, input
capability 1 to 10
• Frame rates from 1 to 1 O f/S/Stream
• Camera data stream and external equipment
event association

Compact High Capacity Data Storage

Netwateh®
camera
Video

ln"1/l/g11nt --11/llanc:11 Sysauns

servers fCISJ
servers fVDSJ

CIS

The CIS performs the digital equivalent of the analogue 'recording' function; it captures video from cameras and
streams video data to local storage devices and the network.
Operators at Surveillance Control Stations have control over any number
of CIS units and can command them to: control active cameras, download
current and historic video data, control the Visual Motion Detectors, update
the Alarm Status lists etc.
Camera Interface Servers also provide physical interfaces for PTZ control,
External Alarm Inputs, External Alarm output, Audio devices, Local Area
Networks, ADSL and PSTN Networks etc.
The CIS provides the video intelligence for the system and is able to
analyse and process video data through mathematical 'Transforms' to
obtain accurate motion detection and to perform its functions in
accordance with user specific requirements.
VOS

Video Data Servers provide a networked archive of video data allowing authorised Surveillance Control Stations to
replay or download historic data (typically: from a few seconds, to many months old) . VDS's can be employed to
provide a data backup to increase system availability. They are used particularly where the primary CIS may be at
risk from criminal damage or where radio networks may be temporarily unavailable. On larger systems they provide
extended data storage for archive material and video data distribution that otherwise may be overwritten at a CIS.

User Benefits
• Proven technology - in use for over 6 years by major
Government, Commercial and Industrial users
• Proven compatibility with major network hardware suppliers - no
compatibility risks when AR&T plan system
• Integrated features guaranteed to meet all common security
applications - lowest risk solution possible
• Highly cost effective solution for larger surveillance systems
• Surveillance system reach is only limited by the network
• Can be used over the Internet allowing long distance
surveillance
• Visual Intelligence reduces fatigue and loss of attention by
operators
• Mapping function allows operators to have better visualisation of
events
• Can be implemented to provide high availability of data for high
value assets
• Digital networked video can provide better quality and easier
access than analogue
• Wireless communication options provide cost effective data
distribution
• Integrated diagnostics help rapid fault location and reduce down
time
• UK design and manufacture - support available when required
• Bespoke hardware and software solutions available for nonstandard applications

Mounting Styles
NetWatch servers are supplied in 1U, 2U and
4U rack mountable case styles.
All styles are constructed with steel bodies
and stainless steel front panels providing
attractive, industrial quality, equipment and
control room fixtures.
LED indicators show operational status and
there are no user controls available on the
front panels. Front panels are held in place
with security screws to inhibit tampering .
1U

2U
4U

Contact: Sales
Tel 01489 892030
Unit 3 Castle Mount, Stuart Street
Mansfield, Notts. NG18 2NN
www.ar-t.co.uk sales@ar-t.co. uk

Advanced Research
& Technology Ltd

