DOMINATOR

C l d n g BTS unit

Dominator I

- GSM Interception System

Real time interception of GSM traffic
Supports both real time A5.1 and A5.2 deciphering
Totally transparent and undetectable by the Mobile Operator and the subscriber
Support all frequency bands 850Mhz,900Mhz,l800Mhz and 1900Mhz
Gathering intelligence information even when target is not using the mobile phone
User-friendlyoperation

The Dominator I is designed for off-air interception for cellular communication in GSM
networks. It provides the interception of up to 6 simultaneously users that are operating
close to the system. The system intercepts and records all outgoing and incoming calls,
voice and SMS, to and from the target.
The Dominator I is using an active system that captures the lMSl and IMEl of the targets
but as it is an active system it is proved fully non detectable modes of operation.
The Dominator Ioperates in Random mode as well as in Target mode. It can filter, track
and record only the target operation,

ALMENTA HK
200 West Washington Square Suite 1 308 Philadelphia, PA 1 9106 USA
www.almentagroup.com email: sales@almentagroup.com

DOMINATOR
Advantages:
Totally undetectable by the operator and by the user
Intercepts and records all outgoing and incoming calls, voice and SMS
All target calls are registered in the Mobile Operator billing systems
Pass the caller ID to the target mobile phone.
All traffic (voiceand data) is fully encrypted in the air.
Multi Mobile Operators functionality
Easy change of Mobile Operator by changing a parameter only
lnterception distance up to 1 Km,
Interception operation starts in less than 15 seconds
Correlation tools to detect targets
Analysis tools to search for events
VPN configuration allows operation in different locations and common control center.
Operate with GSM DF system - remote silent activation of a target

Options and extra features
Optional model up to 2Km.
Optional- interception of 3G cell phones,
Optional- target Direction Finder - DF subsystem
Optional - target Direction Finder - Homing system
Optional- Dominator wireless -Split operation: controlling remote interception points via
wireless communication
Remote operation - controlling of interception mission via lnternet
Target communication manipulation. Block, redirect or change information to or from the
target, Change SMS content, Voice call manipulation

ALMENTA HK
200 West Washington Square Suite 1308 Philadelphia, PA 19106 USA
www.almentagroup.com email: sales@almentagroup.com

