(c>)

Speech
:;g[~gy

IKAR Lab
Professional hardware and software set
for advanced audiokpe~chsignal analysis
IKAR Lab software and hardware solution provides the capabilities to perform a multitude of valuable audio
processing, analysis and biometric matching functions.
It is widely used by law enforcement agencies, government institutions and private forensic analysts all over the
world.

IKAR Lab pmvid~s:
Audio visualization, processing and analys~s
Speech enhancement and audio restoration
Authenticity analysis of audio files to detect tampering and editing
Audio database management
Manual or automatic biometric voice matching
Taking volce samples
Report and charting capabilities to provide court accepted evidence output

Forensic Awdia Workstaticri
Forensic Audio Workstation includes
powerful tools for audio processing,
automatic and human-assisted speakers
comparison. It renders an invaluable
help in automation of time-consuming
identification tasks, such as searching
for comparable words, sounds or pitch
patterns, matching of pitch and formants
and producing numeric results and overall
text identification or el~minationconclusion.
FAW also provides unique instruments
for audio authenticity analysis.

IKAR tab is comprised of Speech Technology
Center advanced and time-tested technologies
and algorithms which are already in use at over
450 installations in more than 60 countries
world-wide making it the most popular suite of
audio processing, analysis and voice biometric
matching tools

VoiceGrid Local provides essential forensic database management
and voice identification functronahty. Any voice recording that
forms part of an investigation is added to the database with an
accompanying case description, along with information and photos
pertaining to the speaker.
Create, monitor and manage the voice database.
Quickly identify or elimtnate speakers under investigation
Interfaces directly to Forensic Audio Workstation for expert
analysis
Live enrollment from Voice Sampling Workstation
Batch input and data migration

Saund Cleaner II
Perfect for beginners and audio professionals alike, Sound
Cleaner II noise reduction software performs a full spectrum of
noise filtering and sound enhancing tasks. Audio enhancement
and filtering IS fundamental In law enforcement and private
agencies that handle audio evidence Whether the aim is to
eliminate interference to improve voice clarity or to remove
background noises for better analysis, Sound Cleaner II noise
reduction software is the ideal solution.
Sound Cleaner II uniquely combines state-of-the-art noise
filtering algorithms and speech enhancement tools in one
product. Each module can be easily activated and combined
with others in the filtering workflow, so that any changes in the
audio can be heard intelligibly and on-the-fly.

ANF l1
ANF II produces professional results while being Intuitive and
easy-to-use, requiring no special knowledge in digital sound
processing. Adaptive noise filters yield immediate results and
allow adjustments to be instantly audible All settings and controls
can be adjusted via the front panel of the device, remotely via webinterface, or from the computer via USB cable
When connected to a local network, the ANF II works as a fullfledged noise-processing server. The device can be controlled and
all the settings can be adjusted remotely via web interface. The
device improves the quality and intelligib~lityof speech signals
recorded by the device or uploaded to its removable memory card.

Voice Sampling Workstarion

Training, theoretical and practical support

VSW IS the complete software and hardware solution for taking
voice samples of speakers under investigations.

Audio forensic training is a part of audio lab efficient work.
STC courses are designed to provide the student with
detailed theoretical and hands on training on the suite of
audio forensic products and methods used for different
types of examinations.

MultiPassport software
2 USB-powered microphones
Gnome-P: mini digital voice recorder

Russia

Germany

4 Krasutskogo street
St Petersburg, 196084
Tel +7 812 325 8848
Fax. +7 81 2 327 9297
Emall stc-spb@speechprocorn

Saargemunderstr 21 1
0-661 19 Saarbrucken
Tel +49(0)681 8590565
Ernall ~nfo@speech-techde

(c 1)

Speech

E;;lOgy

