MAT
Microphone Array Tile
In many surveillance situations, it is simply not feasible to get close enough to the
targets to capture clear audio with an omni-directional microphone. That’s where
“Mat Array Tile” comes in. At GriffComm we specialize in developing unique and
powerful audio collection devices and filters to help you capture and clean audio in
difficult situations. Using GriffComm’s pioneering line of array microphone products,
you no longer have to get face to face with the targets to discretely pick up their
conversations or wire an undercover officer or informant to monitor their well-being.

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Highly directional microphone system using patent pending advanced
technology
Ideal for indoor/outdoor audio collection in noisy environments
•
Remotely picks up subjects
•
Reduces noises from other directions
Re configurable
Assembles easily into small and large arrays
Works with recorders and transmitters
Battery powered
Simple to operate

How it works
The MAT works by creating a highly directional audio pickup pattern using the 5 x 4
grid of microphones installed in each tile. The pickup pattern comes straight out
from the tile and is shaped like a ‘fat cigar’. Simply steer the pattern in the direction
of the subject and listen in real-time. Audio sources (subjects) straight ‘ahead’ are
amplified; noise sources from the sides and back are reduced. The range of
maximum sensitivity is typically from about 5 to 30 feet (2 to 10 meters) indoors and
up to and beyond 70 yards (64 meters) outdoors, depending on the scenario,
number of tiles, and configuration of the system. The MAT is powered by a
standard 9V disposable battery, which inserts into the amplifier for convenience. A
standard headphone audio output is included for recording, transmitting and realtime monitoring. An auxiliary (line) output and mute control can be added at no
additional charge.
Ordering information:
MAT-60 - 3 tiles, 1 amplifier, & 1 set of headphones
MAT-180 - 9 tiles, 1 amplifier, & 1 set of headphones
MAT-360 - 18 tiles, 3 amplifiers, & 3 sets of headphones
MAT-Tile - 1 replacement tile
Note: Please specify if AUX (line) Output and Mute controls are desired
(no additional charge).

