NVision Studic

Ultra-rapid simultaneous detection of multiple
patterns.
Recognition of partially occluded objects.
Robust to rotation, size or resolution changes.
Quasi-invariance to image quality and lighting
conditions.
Processes images and videos.
A very light imaging software kernel with
extremely small footprint.
Works on COTS equipment, no high end, no
dedicated or proprietary hardware needed.
Wide range of scalability from standalone PC to
multicore cluster via low end chipset.

1

TeI: +33 (01561 00 91 45 I Fax: +U(0)s61 52 14 85

UNLOCK YOUR VISION
SNVisionStudio, the software solution for real-time pattern recognition, can be
integrated in your applications.

,

U s e case (non-exhaustive):
Sport sponsorship ehkiency measurement in broadcast events by evaluation
of brand exposure via logos detection.
Broadcast advertisementsmonitoring by automatic image identification.
Vehicle counting and classification, traffic estmation.
Recognition of products and synnges for injection robots.
Identification 9f hidden markings on secured paper.
Product detecfion and identification (number of facings, SKU)at point of sale.
Customers sfatistics at sales point with people counting and face detection
solutions.

26.Rue Hermbs 31520 Ramonv~lleSainl-Agne

FRANCE

www.sprkenet-technology.com

;

NVision Studio

Main

Features
Performances:

$I

$stem by Spikenet.
The NAVlG Proiect, to provide visually-impaired people with an artificial vision
helping them to reach a given destination, in a reliabl

solution^

Processingspeeddependson 3
main factors:
Minimal size of the target to be
found
Number of models
Input image size
On a regular desktop, 1 ms model for I
million pixels.

Additional t e c h n i c a l
information:
on the waste d~sposalconveyor belt. Detection combines many form detections, amonl
which face detection and specific patterns recognitio
Australian Pa~er,the number 1 paper production CO

Rooted in Visual Neurosciences research, and after two decades in R&D,
Spikenet's technology has grown to a unique and unparalleled level in ul
rapid form recognition.

Development environment: MS
Visual Studio 6,2003,2005,2008,
2010
1 GHz microprocessor minimum
MS Windows XP-, Vista- and
7-compatible
Compatible with most Video
Capture systems
Compatible with a wide range of
USB camera, ieee1394, IP

Recognizing a form in a few milliseconds, or retrieving an image among 100
million in just a second, the remarkable performances of its image analysis
engine, as well as its wide specter of applications, are what make Spikenet th
ideal solution to any vision-related problem.

Spikenet Technology develops a revolutionary real-time pattern
recognition system based on asynchronous spiking networks.

Spikenet Technology products can be declined as softwares or
as embedded systems.

contact@spikenet-technology.com

26, Rue Hermes 31520 Ramonville Saint-Agne

FRANCE

