What is MFZ?
The MFT Forensic Tower is Meiya Pico's 2nd generation Forensic
Workstation. Oriented by the Parallel Forensic Technology, the
MFT provides rich interfaces, achieves concurrent data
duplication, parallel analysis, OS emulation, and is compatible
with various kinds of forensic software.
What can MFT do?
The MFT helps save' labor, money, and time in forensic
investigations.
Investigators today often find difficulty in balancing the cost and
efficiency in forensic investigations; and requirements of the
massive, forensically-sound data processing, make such
investigations even more difficult. The MFT however, can solve
this problem perfectly. It can access various kinds of storage
mediums through write-blocked interfaces, perform simultaneous
disk duplications, automated data analysis, live OS emulation,
and generate compelling investigation reports.
Parallel Forensic Technology
The Parallel Forensic Technology makes a leap in promoting the duplication
speed, that is, four times faster as regular methods.
The Parallel Forensic Technology helps MFT achieve a parallel duplication
speed up to 7.5GB/min, and SSD speed up to 19.5GBlmin. It supports flexible
configuration that allows investigators to customize the sources, destinations, and
parameter settings in data duplication.
Multi-threading Analysis
This feature allows the MFT to better leverage CPU resources; this greatly
promotes the efficiency of digital acquisition (E01 imaging) and analysis.

Rich interfaces
SAS, SATA, IDE, SCSI, and USB at source
SATAISAS supported on destination
All sources are write-blocked
Allow access to various storage cards
Ventilated Drive Holder
All sizes of IDE (3.5 ", 2.5 ", 1.8 ") with adapter, SCSI (with adapters),
SATA drives can be put in the drive holder to be imaged or analyzed.
The silo is ventilated and stable, which protects drives safely.

Hot swapping & Cable Free Design
m All SATNSAS interfaces and four target R/W ports (SATNSAS) are hot-pluggable with cable-free design.

MFT Solution Highlights: Save Labors, Save Time, Save Money.

Other forensic workstations
B Insufficient write blocker
They provide only one write blocker (ICS Super Drive Lock or Tableau T3458is)
B Low CPl l trsage
Their
3re performance is high, but CPU usage is low.
1 hey have KAIU, but low bandwidth becomes their bottleneck when processing multiple large evidence files.

MFT

Amaximum of four SASISATAdisks can connect to the MFT through write-blockers at the same time, allowing
concurrent duplication and imaging.
m High CPU usage
With Parallel Forensic Technology and multi-threading feature adopted, the M F T can make sufficient use of
CPU usage, promoting duplication, imaging and analysis efficiency.
m Broad bandwidth
With great bandwidth capacity, the MFT achieves even higher performance when processing multiple large
evidence files.
The MFT is a all-in-one solution that works as the sum of 4 disk duplicators, 6 write-blockers, 4 analysis software,
and 4 computers.

Forensic
Tower Solution

Usual Forensic Solution
(Total $40,000+ ??? labors)
Floor 6, Jiada Building, Songpingshan Road, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, China
Tel: (86) 755-86656060-843 Fax: (86) 755-86656090
E-mail: marketing@semptian.com
Website: www.semptian.com.hk

