& Blighter"Scout
Lightweight vehicle-mobile integrated radar and
electro-optic (EO) surveillance system
Blighter Revolution 360 for rapid target detection and
location in all terrains (dual Blighter B303 option)
Integrated radar tracker option ('BlighterTrackl)
Hawkeye robust, high performance E 0 camera
system for target recognition & identification
Compact surveillance system can be mounted to
standard telescopic masts for rapid deployment
Low power consumption and high reliability
Options for LRFs and video tracking
Rapid deployment and orientation with GPS
compass
All controlled through the BlighterView HMI 2,
enabling auto-cueing with manual override

Blighter Scout is one of a range of integrated multi-sensor surveillance platforms from Blighter
Surveillance Systems. Blighter Scout is designed for mounting on vehicle or trailer masts
enabling rapid deployment in just minutes. Featuring the Blighter Revolution 360 radar for high
sensitivity and rapid surveillance in tough environments plus the Hawkeye low-light camera and
optional thermal imaging camera, Blighter Scout is able to detect humans at distances of more
than 7 km, track them and then cue the electro-optical (EO) system to follow the targets leading
to recognition and identification as the targets approach.

The Blighter Scout surveillance platform
provides a mobile surveillance capability for
situations where fixed towers are prohibitively
expensive, impractical to build or simply
ineffective due to terrain or environment.
Blighter Scout enables security forces to move
the surveillance platform to preempt or follow
intruder routes as they adapt to the seasons or
in reaction to interdiction.
Blighter Scout is based on the Blighter Revolution
360 radar fitted with 20" elevation beam antennas
allowing it to operate in hilly terrain scanning hill tops
and valleys in a single sweep (dual Blighter B303
option available). Blighter's PESA electronic
scanning technology allows it to ignore ground
clutter yet rapidly detect small and slow moving
human targets and vehicles. The Blighter Revolution
360 radar platform allows the Blighter Scout system
to achieve a full 360" of surveillance with a single
lightweight and low power radar sensor.
Hawkeye E 0 Camera System
The Blighter Scout platform may be integrated with
a range of E 0 camera systems. The recommended

Ten Years at the Frontier of SecurityTM

complementary system is the Hawkeye E 0 platform
featuring the Piranha MRTV or LRTV high sensitivity
colour daylight TV cameras and a Piranha TV wide
field of view context camera. Coupled to this is the
optional thermal imaging camera, which produces
outstanding image quality day or night. The E 0
system is mounted on a robust pan/tilt mechanism.
This highly-reliable platform provides a simple
modular mounting system for easy detachment of
the sensors when maintenance is required.
BlighterView HMI 2
The Blighter Revolution 360 and Hawkeye E 0
system are integrated and controlled through
BlighterView HMI 2. This Microsoft Windows based
Command and Control (C2) application provides a
clear display of the radar detections overlaid onto a
map. Simple camera controls are provided to
enable the E 0 system to be either automatically or
manually controlled through BlighterView HMI 2.
Alert zones can be prioritized to enable the camera
to be cued to those alert zones or to follow an
established track. This simple automation relieves
operator burden and allows more time for threat

&Blightera
Surveillance Systems

-

-

assessment. An optional video tracking application
allows the E 0 system to automatically follow an intruder
once the radar has cued it to the target location.
The Blighter Scout platform is designed to mount on
industry standard telescopic masts. A typical six metre
hydraulically extending mast allows Blighter Scout to
look over the tops of surrounding vegetation and

achieve optimum detection ranges from its sensors.
Blighter Scout requires only a single mast, with the E 0
system mounted on top for a full 360" unhindered view,
with the radar either rotating around the mast section
directly below it (Blighter Revolution 360 option) or fixed
to the sides of the mast (Dual Blighter B303 option).
Both radar options offer a full 360" of coverage.

Radar Specification
Option l:Single Blighter Revolution 360 Radar
Architectural Overview
Radar type: E-scan Frequency
Modulated Continuous Wave (FMCW)
Doppler Ground Surveillance Radar

Target Detection Performance
Maximum detection ranges:

Scan type: electronic-scanningin
azimuth ('e-scan') using a Passive
Electronically-ScannedArray (PESA)
Pan type: fully integrated cable-drive
positioner allowing 360" surveillance

-Walking person (RCS 1 m2):
7.4 km (4.6 mi.)'

m

m

- Crawling person (RCS 0.1

m2):

3.2 km (2.0 mi.)*

-

Moving vehicle (RCS 30
16.0 km (9.9 mi.)*

HP version

Option 2: Dual Blighter B303 Radars
Architectural Overview
m Radar type: E-scan Frequency
Modulated Continuous Wave (FMCW)
Doppler Ground Surveillance Radar

Target Detection Performance
Maximum detection ranges:
-

Scan type: fully electronic-scanning in
azimuth ('e-scan')using a Passive
Electronically-ScannedArray (PESA)

Crawling person (RCS 0.1 m2):
1.5 km (0.9 mi.)'

-Walking person (RCS 1 m2):
3.3 km (2.1 mi.)*
- Moving veh~cle(RCS 30 m'):
8.0 km (5.0 mi.)*

E 0 Camera Specification
Architectural Overview
m Type: Hawkeye E 0 platform
m Pan tilt head: rugged Cobra PTH

Medium range camera:
-Type: Piranha MRTV
- DIWI (Person): 8.0 / 2.5 / 1.5 km
-

Sensor Options
m Context camera (wide FoV):

-Type: Piranha LRTV

- Type:

36x zoom colour TV camera
- D/WI (Person):3.0 / l.0 / 0.6 km
-

DIWI (Vehicle): 25.0 / 13.0 / 9.0 km

= Long range camera:
-

DIWI (Vehicle):6.0 / 2.0 / 1.4 km

DIWI (Person): 14.0 / 8.0 / 5.0 km
D/WI (Vehicle): 38.0 / 15.0 / 10.0 km

Thermal imaging camera:
- Specification available on request

Errors and omlsslons excepted Bl~ghterSurvelllance Systems reserves the right to modlfy speclflcat~onswlthout notlce.
Bi~ghterradars are protected by a number of lnternatlonal patents. The Bltghter name is an lnternatlonal registered trademark
BSS-0301 0 2 0 13 Bllghter Survelllance Systems

,

Blighter'Surveillance Systems
The Plextek Building
London Road
Great Chesterford
Essex CB10 1NY UK
www.blighter.com
sales@blighter.com
Tel: +44 1799 533200
Fax: +44 1799 533201
a Plextek Group company

