Professional Services
for Law Enforcement

The maker of the leading digital forensics software used
by law enforcement around the world now provides
professional services designed to help law enforcement
handle any criminal investigation, reduce case backlog
and minimize the risk of missing critical evidence.
AccessData’s comprehensive Law Enforcement Services alleviate the digital burdens now commonplace
among law enforcement agencies, such as case backlog, lack of local expertise and urgent investigations
that can’t wait for the regional lab. These obstacles put a great deal of pressure on officers devoted to
protecting the citizens in their communities and taking criminals off the streets.

Expertise and Innovation
AccessData professionals have extensive experience, and are not only the best at what they do, they are
experts in utilizing AccessData’s tools. Recognized by SC Magazine as the company “likely to set the
computer forensic standard for the foreseeable future,” AccessData delivers the most innovative digital
forensics technologies. Nobody knows more about these products than our professional services team.
Combine expertise with the most powerful tools on the market, and you have a partner in crime fighting
you won’t find anywhere else.

Expert Witness Testimony
Because we develop the industry’s leading technology used to analyze digital evidence, we are also the
best choice when it comes to choosing an expert witness. As digital forensics professionals, we adhere to
civil and criminal guidelines and provide objective analysis and reports, advising you every step of the
way on the case at hand and how the digital evidence may be interpreted.

Case Development
AccessData Professional Services will ensure you always have access to all the electronic evidence
and supporting analysis you need, so there are no surprises from the other side. We assist you in fully
understanding the technology and evidence, review reports and testimony from an opposing expert
witness, and we will test the validity, accuracy and scientific merits of opposing counsels’ reports on all
digital evidence.

customized
package

Solution Highlights
Package I: Example
•	 40 Complete Digital Investigations
(Computers, Servers, Network Shares,
External Devices)
•	 100 Cell Phone Investigations
•	 1 On-site Major Case Response
•	 1 Custom-built Forensic Workstation at
Your Location
•	 1 VPN Connection to AccessData’s
Accredited  Professional Services Lab
Package II: Example
•	 50 Complete Digital Investigations
(Computers, Servers, Network Shares,
External Devices)
•	 150 Cell Phone Investigations
•	 1 On-site Major Case Response
•	 2 Custom-built Forensic Workstations
at Your Location
•	 1 VPN Connection to AccessData’s
Accredited  Professional Services Lab

Create a

tailored to your needs

Build a Customized Services Plan
Our clients can choose to build a custom services plan
tailored to each agency’s specific caseload and challenges.
AccessData’s Law Enforcement Services offers all of the
following to ensure your agency has the right equipment,
procedures, expertise and personnel.
Forensic Investigations
•	

Computer Forensics

•	

Mobile Device Forensics

•	

Network Forensics

•	

Peer Review Support

•	

Peer Guidance and Direction on Network Investigations

Equipment Upgrades
•	

New Workstation Annually

•	

Latest Performance Standards

•	

Equipment Configurations are Pretested

Lab Accreditation
•	

Policies and Procedures Development

•	

Review of Evidence Handling & Storage

•	

Review of Case Archiving Procedures

•	

AccessData Lab Accreditation

Major Case Support
•	 On-site personnel and equipment support for major cases, such as a mass 	
	 shooting, child abduction or death of an officer.

CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS
801.377.5410
588 West 400 South
Suite 350
Lindon, UT 84042 USA

NORTH AMERICAN SALES
800.574.5199
Fax: 801.765.4370
sales@accessdata.com

INTERNATIONAL SALES
+44 (0)20 7010 7800
internationalsales@accessdata.com

	

www.accessdata.com

