Lawful Interception

Challenges to Lawful Interception
With a worldwide landscape characterized by entirely new forms of electronic communication the nature of lawful
interception (LI) has changed substantially.
Regulatory mandates implemented in many countries present a significant challenge to the telecommunications
companies, network operators, and service providers tasked with meeting current requirements.
Solutions that have been developed in recent years to comply with local and national regulations differ
considerably from the tools of past eras.
Today, the onus is on companies to modify and extend their network infrastructures to accommodate the
necessary framework for lawful interception and to support techniques that permit the capture and analysis of
communication data in response to law enforcement requests.
The complexities of today’s communication environment heighten the need for lawful interception tools versatile
enough to contend with the widest range of wired and wireless communication exchanges. These tools must
also have the interoperability to integrate easily into existing network infrastructures as well as the reliability to
meet real-world challenges in a proven and secure manner and consequently, effective solutions need to be
available on demand to respond to all lawful surveillance requests from those agencies empowered by law to
obtain the information.
Regulatory Environment
An overlapping framework of international and national regulations establishes the foundation for the monitoring
of telecommunications, implemented to enable law enforcement agencies to intercept messages or information
being distributed for illegal purposes.
National Laws
Throughout the world, regulations relevant to lawful interception continue to be updated and modified to contend
with advances in telecommunications and evolving forms of voice and data communication. Although the
regulatory environment and the nature of the solutions required for compliance vary from region to region, the
overall intent in most cases is very similar and the tools that provide compliance share common characteristics.
In the United States, the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (CALEA), which was recently
extended by a Federal Communications Commission (FCC) ruling to ensure that companies that provide VoIP
services meet the compliance requirements stipulates the conditions under which telecommunications voice
providers must assist a law enforcement authority in intercepting specific subscriber calls when presented with a
valid court order.

Asia : Paciﬁc : Europe

... intelligence empowered

Lawful Interception

In the European Union, In a council resolutions enacted on January 17, 1995, the European Union specified
requirements for national lawmakers and law enforcement agencies that establish the basis for various national
telecommunication surveillance laws, as well as for many international interception standards.
The European Telecommunications Standards Institute The European Telecommunications Standards Institute
(ETSI) has been a major driver in defining lawful interception standards, not only for Europe, but worldwide.
Technical standards ratified by ETSI specify a general architecture for LI that allows systematic and extensible
communication between network operators and LEAs over defined interfaces.
Mandatory compliance with this ETSI standard has been enacted in a number of countries; the provisions state
that following the request of a valid authority, the results of a lawful interception of a particular individual shall be
delivered to the appropriate law enforcement agency.
The 3rd Generation Partnership Project In addition to the ETSI specifications, a consortium of technology
organisations called the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) collaboratively defined technical specifications
for lawful enforcement in 3G and future mobile networks. The initial applicable standards, 3GPP TS 33.106-108,
establish a compliance framework that has been actively embraced by many industry participants (comparable to
ETSI TS 101 331).
Solution Considerations
Ideally, a successful lawful interception solution must be flexible enough to adapt to varying regulations and
interoperable enough to deploy easily within the diverse network infrastructures in different regions. Countries
around the world have responded to the threats of terrorism and criminal activity by enacting legislation that
provides the legal basis for lawful interception.
The differences from country to country essentially involve the specific requirements as defined by the
legislation, including the communication services to be intercepted, the applicable data formats covered, and
the mechanisms through which particular types of communication are to be handed over to law enforcement
agencies (LEAs). In the United States, for example, Congress mandated that all telecommunication operators
provide interception capabilities to LEAs.
Regardless of the specific geographic location, the prevailing regulatory environment in your region is likely to
include provisions so that lawful interception operations can be performed when requested by an authority.
The following list highlights the capabilities of a lawful interception solution that are most relevant to regulatory
mandates and legislative requirements.
•	
•	
•	

Comprehensive interception capabilities: The LI solution must be able to intercept all applicable
communications of a certain target without any gaps in coverage.
Reliability and integrity: The LI solution should ensure delivery of precise and accurate results with the
highest levels of data integrity. The LI solution must be as reliable as the service to be intercepted
Separation of content: Intercepted communications data should be divisible into individual components;
for example, the metadata included in the Interception Related Information (IRI) should be separable from the
Communication Content (CC).

Asia : Paciﬁc : Europe

... intelligence empowered

Lawful Interception

•	
•	
•	
•	
•	
•	

Transparent surveillance: The monitoring activities performed by the solution must not be detectable by the
subscriber.
Immediate activation and real-time responsiveness: Following a request for lawful interception, a solution
must be able to be immediately activated and provide real-time response in delivering intercepted data.
Sufficient capacity: The solution must have adequate capacity to handle the scope and scale of requested
surveillance activities.
Data security and privacy: Sensitive data must be protected during transmission and the privacy of an
individual’s records and personal information should be safeguarded. Only authorised personnel should be
able to view intercepted data.
Decryption: Encrypted data shall be delivered in plain text format if the encryption keys are available to the
service provider or network operator.
Complete logging of events: All LI-related activities must be recorded and logged as part of a centralised
record-keeping procedure.

Asia : Paciﬁc : Europe

... intelligence empowered

