L a wf u l i n t e r c e p t i o n
system.

Soluzioni IT

Designed and built to be used by
police in the field of investigation.

Software Surveillance Agents
“Dark Eagle”
System Intruder is the name of a
family of software surveillance
agents, characterized by a common
set of features and behaviors.
Available for several desktop
computers and mobile devices
HW/SW platforms. It is invisible to
any well-known security software
Firewall, Antivirus, Spyware, Antirootkit, etc.
High Security and reliability
suitable for critical operation, even
for tracking particularly expert or
paranoid users.
Completely customized for each
customer, 2 equal System Intruder
don’t exis.t All data are encrypted
with strong encryption algorithms.

No direct connection between target and
Command & Control System, in this way no
one can understand who is controlling who, and
no one can directly attack the C&C System.
Available for Microsoft Windows (all
versions), Unix/X11, Mac OS X based targets
Main captured and transmitted information:
Full interception of Skype and other encrypted
communication software , keyboard and mouse
input (also virtual keyboard), clipboard,
screenshots, webcam, visited web pages list and
contents (also SSL), sent and received e-mail ,
chat, instant messengers, file transfer, etc.
Remote Control: File upload and download on
demand Commands execution Upgrade and
full remote uninstallation
Able to operate even when installed without
Administrator/root privileges

Market’s unique automated network
Works by selectively “on the fly” altering of the target’s IP traffic, performs the
remote and invisible installation of System Intruder, allowing therefore the
interception of Skype and other communication systems: without any physical
contact with the target without the need of sending the target anything
suspicious (e-mails, messages, websites redirections, contacts, etc.) such as
“Trojan horse” without having to exploit any application or system bug of the
target.

Network Aggressor
Tactical Kit
Includes a Network Aggressor and
everything needed to quickly install it on
the target line
and perform on-field
configuration.
Allows operations without requiring the
Network Operator collaboration.
If the target changes operator/ISP
system continues to operate.

the

Available for different kind of line:
ADSL 2+
VDSL 2
Ethernet (copper and fiber optic)

Mobile phone, main captured and transmitted information:
Phone type: IMEI, IMSI, model and installed software;
Location-ID (cell identification), GPS position;
Contacts;
Calls list (received, dialed, missed);
SMS list inbox and outbox (date, time and text);
Files from phone and external memory card (on demand).
Remote Control:
Upload and download of file on demand , Commands execution

GR SISTEMI SRL
Via Calamandrei 61
20862 Arcore (MI) ITALY
Phone +39039/614265
Fax. +39039/6188960
www.grsistemi.it
Email: info@grsistemi.it

