Ytrail Corporate Overview
©

Ytrail is the industry
expert in suspicious
activity analysis,
profiling and automated
surveillance. Our
solutions easily
integrate multiple
data sources, both
structured and
unstructured. A single
view provides deep
insights into suspicious
activity within a single
customizable view.
Our products are
architected to be agile,
real time, quick to
implement and able to
deal with the challenge
of big data. They are
designed to run at a
significantly lower total
cost of ownership.

Vision

YNIC

©

At Ytrail, we believe in a single view approach to real time data
management off all available data sources, minimizing the resources involved. Thereby enabling a stealth approach in the
monitoring and tracking of all possible situations or individuals. We believe that profiling, data correlation and analysis as
well as real time suspicious activity reporting are key to any
successful operation.
Our belief has led to the creation of an innovative solution, the
Ytrail National Information Center (YNIC) and the Ytrail Corporate Command Center (YCCC), that is designed to significantly
lower total cost of operations as compared to legacy approaches. We offer all our customers a common core product with rich
in feature-functionality and access to a fully funded road map.
Our product philosophy ensures that our customers enjoy the
benefits of a living solution; one that evolves overtime and improves with innovation.

Company Profile
©

Founded by a diverse team of law enforcement professionals,
bankers, internet entrepreneurs, telecommunications engineers and database specialists, Ytrail has over 200 man years
of experience in data management and analytics. Ytrail is committed to being the most innovative developer of data management and analysis systems.

Ytrail is headquartered in Zug, Switzerland and services an
expanding global customer base from branch offices in South
America, Asia and the Middle East. Ytrail’s innovative software
suite is offered in conjunction with a full range of complementary professional services including; consulting, systems integration, training and localized support services.
Ytrail has built a substantial capability to deliver premium quality projects globally and works with leading system integration
organizations of our client’s choice, to deliver relevant and effective solutions.
Ytrail provides solutions to countries in:
•	 Asia
•	 Europe

•	 Middle East
•	 South America

For more information about Ytrail, please visit us at:
www.ytrail.com

Head Office
Innere Güterstrasse 4
6304 Zug, Switzerland
info@ytrail.com
Tel. +41 44 586 0937
Branch Offices
R. Dr. Antônio Santaella, 111
88054-502 Florianópolis, Brazil
Tel. +55 (11) 323-08399
Tiffany Tower, 13th floor
Cluster W, Jumeirah Lakes Towers
Dubai, United Arab Emirates
Tel. +971 (4) 369-7078

Switzerland
United Arab Emirates

©

Singapore One Raffles Place
Level 24, 1 Raffles Place
Singapore 048616, Republic of
Singapore
Tel. +65 (3) 108-0402

