AXS-2500
AXS-2500 Passive Probe for IP Intercept

Utilizing the industry leading AXS-2500 passive probe, Xcipio™ solves
Lawful Intercept compliance issues for carriers whether they serve
hundreds or millions of subscribers.

Europe was the early leader in packet intercept, defining dedicated devices to handle the sensitive nature
of lawful intercept and creating the first standard
for packet intercept called TIIT(Transport of Intercepted IP Traffic). During this time SS8 was an
active participant developing and testing solutions
to comply with TIIT. In those early days of packet
intercept things like SPAN ports and Remote Monitoring capabilities on routers were used to access
and replicate a target’s traffic but it quickly became
apparent, with the explosion of IP services and protocols, that much more sophisticated capabilities were
needed to identify, reconcile and deliver IP traffic
to law enforcement. As the industry-leading, highperformance, filtering and capture device for passive
communication intercept, the AXS-2500 provides
those capabilities and much more. Purposebuilt for
this task it is based on stringent lawful intercept requirements pioneered in Europe; and is a fieldproven
solution with security mechanisms that ensure the
integrity of the target data and provide protection
against breaches in warrant security.
Lawful Intercept (LI) is performed in one of two ways,
active or passive. Active intercept leverages the
capabilities of the existing network elements(switches,
routers, gateways etc.) to copy and forward the de-

www.SS8.com    750 Tasman Drive  Milpitas CA 95035 USA

sired information to Xcipio. But when, for example, a
network element doesn’t have LI capability or maybe
a portable solution is desired or if a single aggregation point exists, then a passive solution using the
AXS-2500 probe can be an excellent choice. Contrary
to its description the AXS-2500 is anything but passive
in operation. While it may only be passively attached
to the network, as opposed to network elements that
are actively switching calls and data, the AXS-2500
performs a very active role, examining and identifying
packets at rates of up to 10 gigabits per second.
»»
»»
	
»»
»»
	
»»
»»
»»
»»
»»
»»
»»
	

Purpose-built appliance
Based on COTS technology, providing
continuity of supply and optimum pricing
Filtering of ATM, MPLS, Ethernet and IP
Filtering of user applications such as email,
VoIP, chat, etc.
Wide range of IP and telecom interfaces
Passive VoIP intercept
Powerful string search capability
Full IP stream interception of all user data
Encrypted software and file system
Automatic target deletion on power down
Secure, wire-speed filtering with no
network degradation

1 of 6

Target Premise

ACCESS

Architecture
The AXS-2500 is built on patented technologies that
allow it to be deployed in the most secure and demanding environments. To ensure high performance
several design techniques have been incorporated,
including specially modified and tuned network card
drivers for optimal performance and high capacity
multistage buffering. This buffering technique allows
the AXS-2500 to handle burst traffic from interception through delivery, ensuring accurate and complete
collection of traffic with zero loss at wire speed.
For packet inspection a unique hierarchical and scalable filtering technique is used. A First Line Intercept
Process filters traffic against IP address, protocol
ID and TCP/UDP port number. Traffic targeted by
IP address alone can be forwarded directly to the
Xcipio Mediation Function. Traffic requiring further
processing (SIP signaling, string searches, etc.) is
passed to a Second Line Intercept Process for deep
packet analysis. The first and second line processes
are modular, allowing them to be hosted on a single
platform or across multiple servers. This tiered

www.SS8.com    750 Tasman Drive  Milpitas CA 95035 USA

MEDIATION

COLLECTION

approach, in conjunction with the buffering technique,
keeps packets flowing while allowing deeper inspection to take place when necessary.

History Buffer
Experience has taught us that it is not always possible to immediately identify packets of interest, with
this in mind the AXS-2500 contains a history buffer
that allows searches to “go back in time” to retrieve
packets that are deemed important after-the-fact.
One example is in a VoIP environment where two
independent packet streams (SIP and RTP) are created. While the AXS-2500 is examining the signaling
information (SIP) to see if it belongs to a target, the
corresponding RTP (voice) packets may have already

2 of 6

started transmitting. But because of this unique buffer, as soon as the RTP traffic is deemed important,
the AXS-2500 can back into the buffer and recover
any initial RTP packets that might have been transmitted without being intercepted. A similar example
is the case of a user logging onto a network (wireless,
internet, etc.) and then transmitting data. In this case
the AXS-2500 is examining the login protocol (I.e.
RADIUS) for matches while simultaneously buffering
the data packets in case they are needed. In a different example, when connectivity between elements is
blocked, the history buffer, utilizing a combination of
both RAM-based storage and the server’s hard drive,
can be used to store information until connectivity is
re-established.
Core Functions
Filters
While processing packets at high rates across various networks (wireless data, broadband, WiFi, etc.),
the AXS- 2500 needs guidance to determine what
is important or relevant. This is where filters come
into play; they are used to identify a target’s traffic
and isolate it. Filters (IP address, IP address with
port number, email address, SIP E.164, RADIUS
login, text string, etc.) will vary based on the network
technology, and the protocols in use. The AXS-2500
includes capacity for up to 5000 live targets (filters)
and examines many different protocols (email, web
surfing, chat, VoIP, instant messaging etc.) across
many different transport types.
Targeting and Searching
The 5000 targets supported by the AXS-2500 can be
configured using any combination of the following
protocols/target identifiers:

www.SS8.com    750 Tasman Drive  Milpitas CA 95035 USA

»»
»»
»»
	
»»
»»
»»
»»
»»
»»
	
»»

IP address
TCP/UDP Port and IP address combination
Email addresses from SMTP, POP3 or
IMAP Traffic
POP3 and IMAP login usernames
PPP Username
SIP E.164, URLs, Text ID, or all calls
IRC nicknames, usernames or realnames
ATM VPI and VCI
String or keyword search of all traffic at layer 7
– 7 or 8 bit ASCII or binary strings
Email address within email body

Media Agnostic
One of the core functions of the AXS-2500, and the
thing that makes it so valuable to carriers, is the
ability to support a variety of physical interfaces and
connections; in essence, to be ‘media agnostic’. As
a media-agnostic device, the AXS-2500 supports
multiple connectivity types, leaps over encapsulation layers to inspect the original payloads, compares
data against thousands of filters and searches for
strings across all kinds of protocols. These activities
are supported across a wide range of networks and
physical interfaces that include 10/100BASE-T, DS3
ATM, OC-3c ATM and GigE.
For Ethernet deployments, both copper and fiber are
supported. For VLANs, automatic VLAN skipping is
used to skip VLAN tags and inspect encapsulated
IP packet payloads. In ATM environments, layer 2
inspection, VC filtering and IP over AAL5 is supported,
along with application layer filtering of IP, SMTP, and
TCP port traffic. MPLS filtering operates on both layer
2 and layer 3 and can automatically skip up to 3 levels
of MPLS labels to inspect IP traffic.

3 of 6

Key Differentiators
Application Aware
By being “application aware” and examining information at layer 7 of the OSI model, the AXS-2500 rapidly
inspects traffic, matches it to filters and identifies the
targets’ traffic. This capability is significantly more
precise than just grabbing packets going to and from
an IP address and helps law enforcement pinpoint
items of interest. Some of the applications that the
AXS-2500 is aware of include:
»» SIP (Session Initiation Protocol) for passive
	 intercept of Voice over IP (VoIP) phone calls
»» email where the address portions of the email
	 (To, CC) are searched for matching email ad
	 dresses
»» RADIUS for the identification of login names
Email searches that are application aware can avoid
pulling all the traffic from the well-known “email”
ports, for various protocols (SMTP, POP3, IMAP, etc.),
and instead focus the search on the Source/Destination headers of the email, without having to do a
string search which could produce false positives.
And for application aware RADIUS searches, instead
of reporting all RADIUS traffic the AXS-2500 examines the RADIUS traffic to find specific login names,
identifies the IP address assigned to each login name
and reports them so that they can be used for further
intercept activities.
Keyword Search
Keyword searching in both ASCII and binary is a
flexible capability limited to very few probes on the
market today. This powerful feature in the AXS-2500
allows for free-form searches critical to intelligence
and surveillance activities that not only spot keywords
but also help identify patterns of usage.

www.SS8.com    750 Tasman Drive  Milpitas CA 95035 USA

Rapid Adoption of New Protocols
In addition keyword searches make the AXS-2500
“application independent”, allowing it to immediately
support the multitude of protocols constantly being
introduced. By using keyword searches filters are set
up immediately on new protocols without having to
wait through a development cycle for full protocol
support.
Flexible Deployment
One or more AXS-2500s can be deployed strategically throughout the network to capture traffic or
relay signalling events. The captured data, voice and
signaling are passed to the Xcipio mediation device for
either further processing or delivery to the relevant
agency managing the warrant. Delivery standards for
both broadband data (ETSI TS 102.232,233,234 and
ATIS T1.IAS) and voice (ETSI ES 201-671 and ANSI
T1.678) are supported by Xcipio.
Passive VoIP
Utilizing a passive VoIP intercept solution can be a
quick and efficient way of meeting regulatory obligations for VoIP providers. The AXS-2500 is a networkequipment agnostic solution that intercepts and interprets SIP signaling traffic in the network. It uses the
information contained within the SIP control messages to create both call data messages and identify
the RTP flow(s). Once the RTP flow is identified, any
initial packets that may have been missed can be
retrieved from the history buffer and all RTP packets
transmitted from that point forward are intercepted.
Xcipio collects information from all intercept access
points in the network and delivers the information to
law enforcement.

4 of 6

Other Features
Cost Effectiveness
Uniquely scalable the AXS-2500 probes minimize
both up-front investment and on-going operational
costs. Modular hardware and software provide scalability in a common chassis with the flexibility to filter
at the ATM, Ethernet or IP layers, all the way through
to user applications (email, VoIP, chat, etc.). Powerful
string search capabilities can be enabled allowing
for free-form parsing of traffic streams without the
need to develop expensive protocol interfaces. Use of
commercial off-the-shelf (COTS) equipment reduces
costs typically associated with proprietary chassis,
servers and line cards. Multi-link line cards and quick
software upgrades minimize time associated with
maintenance and upgrades, reducing the total cost
of ownership over the life of the product.

www.SS8.com    750 Tasman Drive  Milpitas CA 95035 USA

Security
Security is always a concern when sensitive information is involved and the AXS-2500 has several built in
features that protect the platform and the information
within it. The first of these ensures target data never
leaves the premises, upon any power down all target
information is automatically deleted. In addition, the
file systems are all encrypted and the software image
itself is node-locked on the server. No run-time log
files are exposed to general users, only explicit, predefined alarms are generated and finally, the server
itself can be physically locked.

5 of 6

AXS-2500 Server Specifications
AXS-2500 Probes are based on two off-the-shelf
server platforms. Both are 19” rack-mount servers designed for telecom environments with the DC version
meeting the more stringent NEBS and ETSI requirements for central office deployments. In both cases,
network interfaces may be upgraded or changed by
simply swapping out the interface line-cards.
Server Platform – AC Version
The AXS-2500 server-based platform provides high
performance, real-time filtering of Internet data. This
space saving, 1U high, AC powered server is a costeffective solution that supports hot-plug dual redundant power supplies, Dual Core Intel processors, up
to 8GB of RAM and a hard disk that can be used, in
addition to the on-board RAM, for data buffering.

Server Platform – DC Version
The DC version of the AXS-2500 is the Intel® Carrier Grade Server TIGW1U. It is a 1U, rack-mount
server providing NEBS-3 and ETSI compliance along
with industry leading CPU performance in a compact
package. Built for the demanding telco environment,
both the hard disk drives and the power supplies are
hot-swappable, with a second power supply available
for redundancy. The configuration includes an integrated four-port 10/100/1000 Mbps Ethernet card, a
slim line CD/DVD drive and a lockable chassis.

Some of the features listed may be under development. Please contact SS8 for feature availability schedule. This document does not create any express warranty by SS8 Networks or about its products or
services. SS8 Network’s sole warranty is contained in the written product warranty for each product. The end-user documentation shipped with SS8’s products constitutes the sole specifications referred
to in the product warranty. The customer is solely responsible for verifying the suitability of SS8’s products for use in its network. Specifications are subject to change without notice.
Copyright © 2008 SS8 Networks, Inc. SS8, the SS8 logo, Xcipio, The Architects of Intercept and ServiceController are trademarks of SS8 Networks, Inc. All other trademarks mentioned in this document
are the property of their respective owners.

www.SS8.com    750 Tasman Drive  Milpitas CA 95035 USA

6 of 6

