FOR IMMEDIATE RE

SS8 NETWORKS SELECTS SYSTEAM ITALY AS ITALIAN DISTRIBUTOR
Systeam to Supply SS8’s Lawful Intercept Enablement Solutions to Telcos
And law enforcement organisations

SAN JOSE, CALIF., October 18, 2006—SS8 Networks®, a recognized provider of
lawful intercept and unified messaging solutions for telecommunication service
providers, announced today a strategic distribution agreement with Systeam Italy, a
leading supplier of data management products to telecom customers.
Under the agreement, Systeam will distribute all SS8 Networks’ lawful intercept products
to customers in Italy.
“Demand for well developed, secure lawful intercept technology has never been greater
and our partnership with SS8 Networks extends our portfolio giving our customers access
to world-class solutions,” said Marco Braccioli, vice president for global sales at Systeam
Italy. “Whether the customer provides wireline, wireless, broadband or cable service,
they are seeking a standards-based, customizable technology. We believe we can fully
meet those needs by adding the SS8 products to our portfolio.”
SS8 Networks solutions meet the standards for lawful intercept established by the
European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI), and North American
ANSI/TIA/ATIS and PacketCable specifications.
“Systeam Italy is the perfect distribution partner for us,” said Colin Verrall, vice
president for Europe, Middle East and Africa at SS8 Networks. “They have the expertise
in lawful intercept solutions, and the reach into markets where we seek greater
penetration. And they have the enthusiasm to provide their customers with a leading-edge

technology. Based on their track record in Italy we are expecting our partnership with
Systeam Italy to be highly successful.”
About SS8 Networks
SS8 Networks provides a complete range of messaging, lawful intercept, and signaling
solutions that enable network operators to optimize their investment in traditional, legacy
networks while smoothing the transition to 21st century architectures. Through a series of
extended relationships, lawful intercept solutions are now also available for government
and law enforcement agencies worldwide. SS8 Networks' solutions are installed in
global tier one wireless, wireline, VoIP and cable networks and are also available through
a channel of major international switch vendors. SS8 Networks has been recognized and
named a Red Herring 100 and AlwaysOn company in North America in 2005, for its
innovation, quality of management, execution of strategy, and dedication to research and
development. SS8 Networks is headquartered in San Jose, Calif., with the EMEA head
office located in the UK and offices worldwide. For more information, please go to
www.SS8.com.
About Systeam Italy
Systeam Italy is a leading provider of data management products with a vertical focus on
the Telecom industry providing security products to telecom customers in Europe, Asia
and South America, focusing on LEA support systems, fraud management and
information security areas. With its specialization and market positioning, leading-edge
technology and top-tier customer base, Systeam Italy qualifies as one of the most
dynamic and fastest-growing realities in the technology landscape, ready to pursue a
growth acceleration plan, to reap the benefits of the significant investments of the last
two years.
Modula Suite offers extensive functionality and can be easily customised to fit
company’s business model, as reflected by telecommunication or IT environment.
Thanks to its flexible approach based on configuration packages, Modula system is able
to adapt to any business model, quickly and easily providing functionality that assists in
daily operations and improve revenues. Headquartered in Rome with a subsidiary in
Bangalore and an office in the USA, Systeam Italy is rapidly growing its product
proposal worldwide. More information on Systeam Italy can be found at www.systeam.it

NOTE TO EDITORS: SS8 Networks is a registered trademark of SS8 Networks Inc. ServiceController and
Xcipio are trademarks of SS8 Networks Inc. All other company names and marks may be trademarks of the
respective companies with which they are associated.

Media Inquiries:
Catherine Needham
Connect2 Communications, Inc.
503.629.1733
catherine@connect2comm.com

.

###

