LI System

Lawful Interception System
Overview

INTRODUCTION

FEATURES

Widespread information technologies provide fast and
dynamic communication media even for criminals and
terrorists. To be able to guarantee public safety, law
enforcement agencies (LEAs) need to identify, intercept
and analyze the content of the malicious communication.
INVEA-TECH provides law enforcement and government
agencies with the state of the art technology to solve the key
part of the investigation process. INVEA-TECH LI System
is the ideal instrument for collecting evidence from
wired IP-based networks.



ETSI LI standards conformance



Easy third-party monitoring centers integration



Dynamic target identification (DHCP, RADIUS)



Hardware accelerated wire-speed 10G probes



Centralized control over whole system



Support for several independent LEAs



Up to 1000 IPv4 and 1000 IPv6 active targets



Encrypted communication and authentication



Easily adaptable to national legislative

SYSTEM DESCRIPTION
Architecture and implementation of the LI System follows
international standards closely while keeping high flexibility
of the whole system. Therefore it can be deployed in
different countries over the world and also easily modified
to meet national legislative.
LI system consists of two main components–- interception
probes and mediation device - which are deployed at ISP`s
site. Interconnection of the components and schematic
installation are shown in the picture. Whole system is
managed through easy-to-use web interface compatible
with all most-used web browsers.
The interception probes are located at input part of the
processing chain. Traffic interception is based on the
provisioned targets and their dynamic identification by
analysis of AAA (RADIUS, DIAMETER) or host control
(DHCP) systems. Their non-intrusive installation and passive
operation mode guarantee invisibility in the network.
Handover of the intercepted data is performed
by mediation device. Mediation device encapsulates data
stream into standardized format and forwards it to LEA
for further processing.

POLICE

WEB INTERFACE

RADIUS, DHCP

PROBE
CONTROL

MEDIATION
FUNCTION

INTERCEPTION PROBES

Interception probe is the essential element of the system.
It is processing network traffic and searching for the traffic
of interest. All intercepted traffic is forwarded to mediation
device for conversion to handover format.
 Full-duplex 10 Gbps line monitoring
 LR, SR fiber optics supported
 Data export over dedicated 1 Gbps interface
 Support for L2 protocols (MPLS, VLAN, QinQ)
 Standard rack-mountable form factor
MEDIATION DEVICE

Mediation device is the central part of the lawful interception system. It is scalable and allows to increase volume
of intercepted traffic as well as number of controlled
interception probes.
 Support for standardized handover interfaces
 Handles multiple interception probes
 User friendly management interface

MEDIATION DEVICE

DYNAMIC
TARGET

INTERCEPTION PROBE

HI1, HI2, HI3

SECRET
SERVICE

 Standard rack-mountable form factor

Ordering Information
Please contact INVEA-TECH for pricing and additional
information about this product.

www.invea-tech.com
INVEA-TECH a. s.
U Vodárny 2965/2
616 00 Brno, Czech Republic

+420 5 1 1 205 250
+420 602 6 4 7 68 4
info@invea-tech.com

