Situational Awareness

Case study: STINGER
Customer:

Problem:

US Air Force
Space Command

Due to the increased reliance on space assets for
critical infrastructure, the growing number of objects
in Earth orbit, and the escalating threat to satellite
operations from actions of other space users, space
surveillance is increasingly important. Sensors
currently used for ground-based space surveillance
do not always fully meet the demands placed on them.

What we did:
Built a data processing and analysis system that
takes data from existing ground-based space
surveillance sensors, and allows additional information
to be extracted. This additional information includes
more accurate satellite positions, detection of smaller
pieces of orbital debris and more reliable tracking
of satellites in close proximity. All these additions
contribute to improved space surveillance.

Intelligence
Case study: Knowledgebase

----~•• Customer :
UK Law Enforcement

Problem:
Operational risk was increasing due to a proliferation of
intelligence databases and systems. This was causing
duplication and inconsistency of intelligence information
and a potential gap in the organisation's knowledge of
organised criminal activity.

What we did:
Built a master information system that securely
manages highly sensitive intelligence data and
provides comprehensive audit and tracking capability.
The system allows officers to ingest, analyse and
disseminate high grade operational data to UK and
International law enforcement and intelligence agencies.

Secure Communications

Case study: Tactical Network lnteroperability

---4•• Customer:
UK Ministry of Defence

Problem:
During tactical military deployments it was difficult
to establish secure communications quickly between
UK and coalition partners due to uncertain availability
of infrastructure and lack of common interoperable
equipment.

What we did:
Utilising our Multiswitch technology, we provided
a highly flexible tactical network node that enables
secure interoperability between local communications
capability(if available), and tactical networks established
in theatre, with reach-back to the UK. l-3 ASA systems
integrate lP, circuit switched, radio and satcom networks,
configurable in the field using an intuitive Graphical
User Interface.

1----11•

Situational Awareness

Case study: Automated Sense and Warn
Customer :

Problem:

UK Ministry of Defence

Bases were under threat of attack from rockets,
artillery, mortars and difficult air targets. There was
a need to disseminate sensor data more effectively
to provide situational awareness and timely warning
to prevent casualties.

What we did:
Utilising our TOTS technology we fused the data
from available sensors, producing highly accurate
tracks and points of impact quickly enough to
provide warning of attack and enabling friendly
forces to take appropriate defensive action saving lives.

