Signature :

Date ,
HAC Type,

0 •
........._O>tnnuat
~ ........ EPMMZ5a7J,.US1~

0

Fuu

www.radio-tactics.com

,. PAATW.

D • ~~• ~------------~

ASSURED NETWORK ISOLATION

A ROBUST SYSTEM SOLUTION

Best practice guidelines for mobile device data
acquisition emphasise the importance of
guaranteed isolation from the network to assure
the integrity of the evidence . In any mobile phone
forensic examination, preserving the security and
integrity of the exhibit and the associated data is

In developing the Handset Access Card solution the
following critical elements have been addressed to
provide a fully robust system solution.

BENEFITS

absolutely vital.

... Prevents connection/interception

Technically, this requirement dictates the need for
a replica SIM card that can be re-inserted into the
handset with guaranteed isolation from the mobile
phone network and the assurance that the exhibit
cannot be compromised .

... Write once then read only solution
(cannot be modified)

The Radio Tactics patented* Handset Access Card
technology uniquely and reliably solves this issue.

... Prevents remote wiping (data deletion)
... A single Handset Access Card supports either mini
or micro SIM form factors
... A dedicated Handset Access Card for nano SIM
support
... Prevents Apps from updating cache memory
... Unique card ID provides explicit link to each phone
examination and corresponding report (audit trail)
... Able to be annotated and referenced by the
examining officer

* US Patent No : 8 161 537
US Patent No: 7 886 347
European Patent No : EP 1 717 767
European Patent No. EP 2 058 774

... Guaranteed identical results for any repeated
examinations

SECURE PROCESS- ON A CARD
The Radio Tactics Handset Access Card solution delivers a

Locking all of these elements together provide the reassurance

complete robust, secure and easy to use process. All of the data

of absolute security and is unique to the patented Radio Tactics

apart from the secret key identifiers is copied in order to block

Handset Access Card technology. Another important element

connection to the network and additionally:

in this secure process is associated with the Keycard of the
examiner which is tied to every Handset Access Card that is

.,. Generates an audit trail which is written to the card providing

generated by the officer.

confirmation of the creator and timestamp for the card
creation

Many other solutions in the market have been deemed inadequate
due to the fact that they are unable to be securely disabled

.,. Incorporates multiple Levels of blocking to ensure that
handsets do not connect to the network under any

immediately after the SIM data has been copied. These are

circumstances

marketed under various guises but only address a part of the

... Write-once card which cannot be modified after it has been
created ensures that it is matched to the specific handset

problem with corresponding security vulnerabilities and risk of
associated data corruption .

... Behaviour guaranteed identical to the original SIM even with
threaded SMS messages

FORENSIC INTEGRITY
The below guidelines are widely acknowledged as vital for
maintaining forensic integrity and evidential security. Key to
the value of evidential data acquired from mobile devices is
"infallibility·.

Without the assurance of a complete block on access to the
mobile phone network, the integrity of the data and the process
itself simply cannot be relied on and can undoubtedly prejudice
the successful outcome of criminal proceedings .

ACESO SOLUTION
Forced Handset Access Card
creation to isolate the phone
from the network. Radio Tactics
patented solution provides
an accurate copy of the SIM
contents with only the network
ID bits removed.

HANDSET ACCESS CARD

ACESO SOLUTION
Electronic audit trail with
encrypted file formats. Linking
Keycard owner to every Handset
Access Card created.

HANDSET ACCESS CARD

KEYCARD

The Radio Tactics unique Handset Access Card and Keycard audit trail process ensures compliance
with these important forensic principles.
V1

~

t.!"-'

rad1o~tactics

RADIOTACTICS

1nfofaradio-tactics.com
rad10-tact1cs.com

