Semi-Active GSM
Monitoring System
SCL-5020SE

Technology Introduction:

System Approach:

GSM networks are most popular and
widespread wireless communication media
across the world, having a wide customer
base in Europe and Asia-Pacific and
command more than 50 percent of mobile
customers. The advancement of GSM
networks increases rapid growth of its users
and services. Being an advance technology it
becomes favorites for the criminals. These
things created worldwide market for the
analysis and monitoring of GSM network.

The system is designed and developed as a
Semi Active OFF-THE-AIR GSM Monitoring
System. The Surveillance of UM interface (b/w
BTS and Suspect’s mobile) provides total traffic
monitoring including SMS and Voice, of the
targeted Mobile. System uses state of art
technology to on-line deciphering of A5.1 and
A5.2 cipher algorithms.
The system comes in a camouflaged case along
with Control Laptop and Accessories.

The advancement of GSM technology,
enhanced
technological
features
and
increased complexity, presents competitive
environment for Shoghi Communications to
design and develop solutions to provide total
Off -The- AIR Communication Surveillance
system to its various Government and
Intelligence Gathering customers.
GSM operates on standards
850MHz, 900MHz, 1800MHZ and
bands and offer services such
MMS, email, advanced video
dictionaries

frequency
1900MHz
as SMS,
features,

Due to the widespread availability of GSM
networks, a GSM mobile has the potential to
seamlessly
roam
nationally
and
internationally. GSM supports data services
where users can send and receive data, at Figure 1 – The SCL-5020SE Intercepts calls form the UM
interface between Target and BTS
rates upto 9600bps.

System Solution:
The SCL 5020SE is has universal operating
capability. This system can be used to
intercept communications from any GSM
service providers in the world irrespective of
the type of encryption being used.
In case of A5/2, the system is completely
passive and does not need any Encryption
key info to decipher the communication. In
case of A5/1, the system comes with a Kc
Retriever to obtain the Kc (Ciphering Key)
from the network. As soon as the system
SCL 5020SE identifies that the target Figure 2 – Main GUI of the SCL 5020SE
communication-taking place is using A5/1
encryption, the Kc retriever in the system Unlike the other active system where the
becomes
active.
The
Kc
retriever monitoring agency is billed for the forwarding of
automatically acts as a genuine BTS and target’s calls, which can raise suspicion form
forces the suspects mobile to register with it, the target due to reduced bill amount (since the
during the periodic location update. The Kc call charges are borne by the monitoring
Retriever communicates with the suspects agency)
mobile using A5/2 encryption, in the process
the SCL-5020SE calculates the Kc. The Kc The SCL 5020SE system deciphers A5/1 and
Retriever also asks the mobile to A5/2 ciphering algorithms online. The number of
authenticate itself with its IMSI, by doing so channels, being received and recorded by the
the system also obtains the suspect’s IMSI. system, can be from 4 & 6 for one control
Both the Kc and IMSI information is stored in computer.
a database. The Kc Retriever now logoff the
suspect’s mobile from its BTS. The Suspect
is then allowed to communicate with the
Actual Service Provider’s network. With the
Kc in the database the system can now
decipher all communications encrypted using
A5/1.
The SCL 5020SE system does not require
the service providers SIM for operation.
Figure 3 – Recorder Window

Features
Real-time monitoring of GSM
communications encrypted A5/1 and
A5/2 Ciphering algorithms
Universal Operating Capability –
The system can be used to intercept
communications from any GSM
service providers in the world.
100% target call monitor rate: The
system
can
monitor
all
communications of the target (SMS
and Voice) till he/she is within its
coverage range
The system is capable of extracting
the Suspect’s actual Mobile
Number from the network without
any help from the service provider.

Figure 4 – Receiver and Cell List Window

The system can be configured to
ignore certain subscribers from
being
intercepted.
This
is
particularly useful in case of ignoring
the operator’s cell phone during an
operation.
The system features a selective
jamming capability, using which
the operator can disable certain
services of the suspect like
Outgoing Call, Incoming Call, SMS,
SS etc. can be jammed.

Figure 5 – Target Window

The SCL 5020SE system does not
require the service providers SIM for
operation

Inbuilt Automatic paging system to
obtain suspect related information
No limit on the number of suspects that
can be added to the target list.
Target list can be created using PLMN,
IMSI or Suspects Mobile Number.
On line monitoring up to 6 duplex
channels. Interception Monitoring and
logging
of
GSM900/1800/1900
communication standards in stationary
or in mobile environments
Automatic tuning of the Receivers, with
a possibility of scanning and recognition
of control channels and communication
system parameters
Monitoring of both forward and reverse
channels (duplex conversation)
Direction Finding Equipment can be
integrated with the system. A digital
map of the location can also be
integrated.
Several SCL-5020SE systems can be
configured in a LAN environment.
On-Line listing of the intercepted Cell
phone calls.
Possibility of round-the-clock operation
in an auto mode without the operator
involvement
Provision of reliable reception of the
information from channels of cellular
communication
systems
with
possibilities of noise-resistant coding.

Unlike other Active systems where
the suspect’s calls are routed
through the system, the SCL5020SE works is semi active mode,
where the suspect communicates
with the normal network.
The called party or the suspect will
not see any change in caller ID (CLI)
The system can monitor
Incoming and Outgoing calls

both

The
system
maintains
encryption being used by
network.

the
the

The system is transparent to the
suspect and the Service Provider.

Simplicity of maintenance, which
does not require a deep knowledge,
either in the field of computers, or in
the field of cellular communication
systems.

IMSI Analysis Software (Optional)

Figure 6 – BTS Tuning Window

IMSI Analysis – IMSI database contains all the
existing service providers in the world. This
database contains information like Country
Code, MCC, MNC, Operator Name, Operator
Region, Network Name, technology (GSM
850/900/1800/1900). Based on the first 5 Digits
of the IMSI this software will tell you which
country and which service provider does the
SIM belongs to. This is very useful when you
are monitoring suspects who are visiting your
network from foreign networks. By analyzing
his IMSI you will be able to know his home
network.

Figure 7 – Record Archive Window

Class Mark Analysis Software
(Optional)
Class Mark Analysis: - A database of
around 40,000 models of mobile phones
and their ClassMark numbers have been
created. The database contains information
about the Models, Manufacturers their
ClassMark numbers and Photographs (of
some popular models only). This is useful
when the suspect has to be monitored
based on ClassMark
Figure 8 – IMSI Analysis Software

Figure 9 – ClassMark Analysis Software

Advance Database Management Software Module For Passive GSM
Monitoring System (Optional)
The Advanced Database Management Software offers verity of features, which will enable
the operators to efficiently use the intercepted data.
Features:
Customized Search: Extensive search feature
enabling the users to search call database based on
different call parameters that they are available off the
air. Search based on – Dialed number, Received
Number, IMSI, TMSI, IMEI, Called date, IN/OUT,
BCCH, encryption, Class Mark (Mobile Mode) etc.
Keyword Spotting in SMS: The system has the
capability of sporting keywords within the received
SMS messages. For example if you want to list all the
SMS that has the word “MONEY”. You can create a
query and the system will list all the SMS that has
that particular word.
Disk Alarm Feature: The systems will automatic
sound an alarm whenever the disk space remaining
for recording is less than the specified limit

Figure 10 – Customized Search

Figure 11 – Search Results

User Interface in local language: Provision
for user interface in local language will enable
operators in quick decision-making; system can be
customized to the required Local Language.
Alerts on Hot Targets: The System has a
provision for adding hot numbers. When any call is
received on them, a buzzer will be played. There is
no limit on numbers that can be added as hot
numbers.

Figure 12 – User Interface in Local
Language

View talk time: View talk time is to obtain
information about talk time for a given period and for
a particular channel
Export File: The recorded audio can be exported
to different formats like mp3, .wma etc using this
feature.

Figure 13 – Hot Numbers

Archiving Data: The System has options for
Selective Archiving or Complete Archiving. By using
selective archiving you can archive calls that have
been searched using any of the search criterion. If
complete archiving is used it will create a full backup
of all the data for the selected date.

Figure 14 – Export Calls

Integration of telephone Directory of
different service providers: The System has
the feature with the help of which Local Service
provider’s directory can be integrated. This will allow
easy searching of target’s vital information like
Address and other telephones registered in his name.
Adding Call Synopsis: There is no limit on the
call synopsis that can be added to the call. The user
can choose the language in which he wants to add the
call synopsis.

Figure 13 – Integration with Local
Telephone Directory

Figure 14 – Adding Call Synopsis

Audio Enhancing And Amplifying Module
The Audio enhancing and editing is achieved through
third party software, Cool Edit Pro. This software is
integrated into the existing
 Recorded conversation can be amplified
 Repeated payback of selected portion of the
conversation
 Noise Filtering to eliminate disturbances in
recorded conversation
 The recorded conversation can be played back at
a slower rate for clear understanding of the
conversation.
 Provision for creating customized scientific filters

Figure 15 - Operational Block Diagram of SCL-5020SE Semi Active GSM monitoring system

About Shoghi:
Shoghi Communications Ltd an ISO 9001-2000
accredited enterprise, is an Engineering and System
Integration company focused on delivering solutions
in the field of Strategic Electronics, developing high
grade Encryption Technologies and a leading
provider of Analysis and Surveillance solutions.
We carry out defined value addition and customize
such
equipments to
meet
the
operational
requirements of the user. Major efforts are being
made to promote indigenous design and development
of various technologies related to strategic
importance, to make our country self sufficient in time
to come.
The Company has core competence to offer solutions
for the upgrade & interface of Legacy systems and
make various systems interoperable, across multiple
platforms, multiple user groups. In response to our
customer requirement, we are today working to
provide solutions in the areas of C4ISR, Data
Fusion,
Imaging,
Simulation,
Artificial
Intelligence and Information Warfare.
Dedication to customer success is a core value that
affects everything Shoghi does. We recognize that we
must earn the right every day to continue to serve our
customers. It is this understanding that drives our
belief that Shoghi’s technical support mission includes
building and maintaining a strong technical team fully
in tune with the contemporary technological practices.
With 85 percent of its human asset at the technical
side, the Company has the ability and logistics to
support all emerging requirements at customer
premises or otherwise.

Contact us
Please feel free to contact our sales and
marketing division for a detailed discussion on
our range of products and solutions.

SHOGHI COMMUNICATIONS LIMITED
707, 7th Floor, Ansal Bhawan,
16 K G Marg, New Delhi 110 001
India
Telephone: 91 11 23351301/ 23351302
Facsimile: 91 11 23351303
E-mail: sales@shoghicom.com
URL:

www.shoghi.co.in.

Authorized Distributor:

Shoghi Communications Limited reserves
the right to vary these specifications
without prior notice.
© 2006 Shoghi Communications Limited

