PRK 040
Special multi-channel receiver
PRK 040 is rated for reception WFM radio signal in 416-421 MHz frequency band.
Features:
- Individual programming of each channel (frequency synthesizer);
- Automatic Carrier Operated Recording;
- Battery Low indicator.
- Low power consumption;
- External power supply (with ON indication) - 6-9 V.
- Tough milled case.
The receiver is designed in a milled metal case.
The receiver is equipped with minimized quantity of controls - volume
control combined with power ON/OFF switch, Channel selector, Carrier LED indicator, earphones
output and the Recorder output combined with Recorder Remote Control function. The product is
powered from built-in 4 x AAA cells.
External power supply socket is located on the side panel of the product.
Preliminary setting of frequency for each channel and squelch threshold adjustment is
available with the use of program buttons located inside the case.
3 main models of special receivers differing in type of audio decoder are manufactured on a
regular base:
1. PRK 040 - open channel (no encryption).
2. PRK 040i - open channel + spectrum inversion decoder.
3. PRK 040D - open channel + delta modulation decoder.
Specifications:
Frequency band
Quantity of memory channels
Modulation
Sensitivity (@ signal / noise 10 dB)
Adjacent-channel suppression at +/- 500 kHz receiver off-tune
Mirror channel suppression
Spurious channel suppression
Current consumption at an average volume
External power supply
Internal power supply
Step of tune
Dimensions (without the antenna)

416 - 421 MHz
10
WFM
0.5 µV
60 dB
60 dB
50 dB
50 mA
6V
3 AAA x 1.5 V
25 kHz
130 x 67 x 20 mm

CONTROLS
Top Panel

Tune indicator:
- Red - presence of carrier frequency;
- Green - no signal;
- Flashing with a rate of about 1 second - replace batteries.

Side Panel

External power supply indicator lights up as soon as external power supply is connected.
Interior Panel
To preset parameters with the use of internal control buttons remove four screws from the
rear lid and two screws from the top panel (located closer to the rear side).

Four control buttons (photo) are installed on the receiver PCB:
1. Tune Down.
2. Tune Up.
3. SQUELCH mode. Use this mode if you wish to record intelligence obtained with the use
of phone line audio transmitters. Use "earphones" socket of the product for connection of your
recorder. Activate VOX mode on the applied recorder.
4. Memory.
2

TUNING
1. Switch the transmitter On.
2. Switch the receiver On.
3. Select memory channel (top panel – memory channels) by pressing "+" or "-" button
repeatedly.
4. Holding button 1 or 2 tune the receiver in the transmitter frequency. For more accurate
tuning push button 1 or 2. The end of tuning range is indicated by the yellow color of the LED.
5. Space apart the transmitter and the receiver at a distance of 5 meters (approx.) or remove
the receiver antenna and repeat step 4.
Tuning quality is checked " by ear " when maximum signal level and minimum noise are
obtained.
6. Push button 3 to select SQUELCH mode. In this case no signal will be heard in the
earphones until the carrier is present.
Note: activated SQUELCH mode reduces sensitivity of the receiver.
7. Push button 4 to store settings (steps 4-5) in the selected memory channel.
Repeat tuning procedure for other memory channels.

3

