GPON Monitor™
Centralized Passive GPON Performance Monitor

GPO N Monitor™ O verview
GP O N Monitor ™ is a unique centralized performance analyzer and monitor for GP O N
networks, designed for telecom operators and service providers engaged in the deployment of
GP O N networks. GP O N Monitor ™ introduces a new concept for central testing solutions of
GP O N networks by combining the functionalities of a performance monitoring tool with those of
a troubleshooting tool.
The innovative GP O N Monitor ™ constantly monitors the performance of GP O N networks,
collects statistics and provides detailed reports of system and link efficiency, connections and
disconnections, Q uality of Service ( Q oS) and Q uality of Experience ( Q oE) as well as potential
problems in the network. In case a problem is identified, it allows manual override for analysis
and troubleshooting of the problem.
GP O N Monitor ™ is typically installed in a central office location and can connect to multiple
O LTs and monitor a large number of GP O N networks. It performs quantitative measurements of
various network parameters which indicate the network's performance and utilization for the
whole network as well as for every user-port. In addition, it can provide customer support
groups (Tier-1 and above) with clear indications of symptoms, along with easy-to-follow
instructions for resolving them.
Following the overwhelming industry acceptance and tremendous success of the company’s field
proven systems, DSL Xpert ™ , VDSL Xpert ™ and GP O N Xpert ™ analyzers, GP O N Monitor ™
defines a new category which constantly monitors the GPO N network and provides complete
and accurate analysis of GP O N network performance, utilization and stability.
GP O N Monitor ™ 's testing concept is based on passive monitoring and testing of the network.
W ith its unique multi-layer probing capability, GP O N Monitor ™ provides comprehensive
analysis of data from the physical layer up to the IP layer, with the ability to drill down and up
through the layers as well as to export data for further analysis. GP O N Monitor ™
simultaneously analyzes downstream and upstream data and the connection between the data
transmitted by the O LT and O N Ts/ O N Us. A user-friendly software-based tool, GP O N
Monitor ™ has a feature-rich G UI which presents multi-layer information in convenient displays,
graphs and tables. Furthermore, its SNMP northbound interface allows its easy integration with
the customer's O perations Support Systems ( O SS).
Cutting significant time from GP O N network monitoring and troubleshooting, GP O N Monitor ™
is a powerful tool which accelerates time to market and return on investment for telecom
operators and service providers deploying GP O N networks.

GPO N Monitor™ OLT Site Typical Layout

GPO N Monitor™ User-Friendly GUI

Real Time Performance Monitoring

Real-Time Triggers and Events

Performance Graphs

Sessions History

Customer Support Test Results

Customer Support Scenario Editor

M ain A p plic ations
C onstant monitoring of the GPO N network for:
System / Link Efficiency
C onnections / Disconnections
Q oS / Q oE
Potential problems
Manual override allows failure analysis, troubleshooting and diagnostics

Fe atures and Benefits
Features

Benefits

Integrative Solution

C ombines the functionalities of Performance
Monitoring and Troubleshooting

C ost Effective

A single test system covers multiple O LTs and
thousands of subscribers

Data / Statistics C ollection

C ollects data and statistics about network
performance, utilization, efficiency and stability

Troubleshooting

Provides complete and accurate indications for quick
remote troubleshooting

O bjective and Independent

Runs tests independently without relying on indications
from the tested equipment itself

Proactive Fault Fixing

Identifies problems before noticed by the end-user

Standard Interfaces

Interface to O perations Support Systems ( O SS) and
export of data to external tools

Fairness in N etwork
Resource Allocation

Verifies that customer SLAs are met and assures
fairness to different ISPs and communications providers

Increased N etwork Reliability

Improved customer satisfaction

Sp e cific ations
GP O N ITU Standards
Compatibility (Troubleshooting
Mode)

G.984.2 – GPO N PMD
G.984.3 – GPO N MA C
G.984.4, G.988 – GP O N O N T Management and C ontrol
Interface ( O MCI)
BBF TR-156

Power Requirements

Input Voltage: -40.5 to -72 VD C
or 100 to 240 VA C, 50/60 Hz

Safety Standard

CE

C ertifications

FC C part 15

O perating Environment

Temperature: 0°- 40°C (32°-104°F)
Humidity: 10% to 90% non-condensing

C onta ct Inform ation
E-mail: info @ tracespan.com
W eb: www.tracespan.com

C opyright © 2011 TraceSpan ™ C ommunications Ltd. All rights reserved. Product design and specifications are subject to change without notice

