A 

HF, VHF, UHFAutomatic
Signal Information System

AQUILA is designed as an automatic signal information system for
monitoring HF, VHF, UHF narrow and wide band broadcasts in order to
reduce the work load on the operator. System enables to control several
devices on different monitoring stations via LANNVAN in terms of central

control, automatic or manual recording, archive search or monitoring.

Remote control provides, qualified personnel

to focus on different targets more easily and
lets sources to be used more efficiently. Real
Time listen in, scan, etc. feature, save time and
resources in monitoring, recording and

archiving.

System is delivered with appropriate options

for various scanners such as
lcom 8500,Ar?5000, WJ861 1.

    
   

   

(View?






A

   
 
   
 



    
   
     





is

5V



   

455%

LOCAL MONITORING CENTER

The MCAU (Monitor,Control,
Archive Unit) is placed near the
antenna and the data is send to
Operators by a LAN connection.
This will give 50% Sound Quality
improvement compared to the A
highly used antenna cable-to- I MonitoLControl'
scanner installations. VVlde Band Scanner Archive Unit

    
  

Antennas

 

Operators

FEATURES

- Real Time recording and monitoring

- Frequency search

- Creating unlimited memory list of targets

- Track within list recording while tracking

- Operating scanners by Client side feature

- Listening and searching previously recorded data

- Saving all data of sound on specified frequency on the Scanners

- Special User Interface provides listening more than one scanner, stereo listening of two seperate records, automatic
combining of two different recordings by adjusting the time 

- Control and monitor different scanners remotely by desired operator.

- 8 8 bitA-Law sound encoding

- Easy user interface

- User Privileges

-Archive transfer. Listening and analysing date, frequency etc. taken from different monitoring software

- Combining different databases from different sources

 

MONITORING CENTER SYSTEM CHART

 

 

  

Antenn

   

Remote Control
and Monitoring
Center

  

           

Monitor. Control,

Monitor, Control, . 
Wide Band Scanner Archive Unit

Wide Band Scanner Archive Unit

 

 

 

 

 

*This document is subject to change without notice.

 

 

 
 

