Solution I C41SR
Challenge:

2d3 wanted to augment itsTacitView software application with a 3D component that would provide users a geospatial interface to create geo-queries. view
geospatial imagery and platform sensor metadata. and
view other map products.
Solution:

After looking at other commercially avai lable 3D globes,
2d3 selected AG l's lnsight3D Visualization Library component for its accuracy, ease-of-integration, documentation quality, company support and graphical capability.
Results:

lnsight3D givesTacitView users a rich, interactive 3D
globe for easi ly navigating through geospatial data. Using AG l's off-t he-shelf components saved the company
time, money and risk.

hen 2d3, computer vision experts. and creators ofTac1tV1ew software. was looking to add a 3D element to
its product to enhance the presentation of geospat1al data for
users. they had a number of commercial off-the-shelf options
to choose from 2d3 quickly realized that not all 3D globes are
created equal. While all available globes had their md1v1dual
advantages and disadvantages, AG l's lns1ght3D V1sual1zat1on
Library contained the breadth of features they were looking
for. and in a package that provided a straight forward integration path for their developers.

W

Tac1tV1ew is a software appl1cat1on that provides users with
comprehensive video management, ed1t1ng, enhancement
and explo1tat1on tools. It operates on commercial off-theshelf PC hardware. and can be deployed in fixed installations
or on mobile platforms. Tac1tV1ew can connect to. record
and exploit both imagery and platform sensor metadata in
real time and post m 1ss1on. Tac11V1ew uses lns1ght3D to pres-

ent this data and imagery back to the user in a geospat1al
context. "lns1ght3D allows us to include a nch, 1nteract1ve.
accurate 3D globe in our software to give our users a way to
v1sual1ze and navigate geospat1al data easily and quickly," says
Jon Damush, president, 2d3 Inc. and Ltd.
lns1ght3D 1s part of AGI Components, low-level class libraries
that provide access to spec1f1c AGI analytical and v1sualiza·
t1on capab1lit 1es. 1n this case high-performance rendering of
pnm1t1ves. inlays and overlays m an accurate 3D environment. Components are ideal for building spec1ahzed custom
applications. portable thin clients. Web applications and
network-centric architectures.
AGI products were selected for TacitV1ew due to their ease
of integration, documentation quality, company suppon and
proven graphical capability. Says Damush. " In a fraction of
the ttme required to write our own globe capability, we were
able to integrate a fully functional 3D globe capability into
our software package:· For more information about 2d3 and
Tac1tView. v1s1t 2d3.com

"In a fraction of the time required to write
our own globe capability, we were able to
integrate a fully functional 30 globe capability into our software package."
- Jon Damush, 203

_Aagi

GENERAL INFO & SALES

Ph one: 1.800.220.4785 I 1.610.981.8000
E-m ail: info@agi.com

AG! delivers mission-proven software for timely and cost-effective development and deployment of advanced space. defense and intelligence applications. AGI products are used for modeling, engineering and
operations in the areas of space. C'/befspace, aircraft. missile defense. C41SR and electronic systems They can be purchased as ready-to-use applications. development tools or turnkey solutions.

www.agi.com

I¢> 2010 A NALYTICAL GRAPHICS. IN C.

