 

Dual E1 Digital Logger

 a - is designed for real time recording
and analyzing of 2048 kbit/s streams. With logging
server, system is capable of recording and analysis of E1,
ISDN PRI, R1, GSM transmissions. Also with DTMF, MF,
FSK dedection, and fax demodulator, wide range of
telephone communication can be monitored passively.

IDEAL FOR

- General Business Applications
- Public Safety

- Government

- Call Centers

- Health Care

- Financial

-Legal

 

DUMAN is designed for real time recording and analyzing of 2048 kbit/s streams. With logging sewer, system is
capable. recording and analysis of E1, R1, GSM transmissions. Also with DTMF, MF, FSK detection, and fax
dem r, wide range of telephone communlo?lon can be monitored passively.

Recordj?hone Calls with a Reliable Solution
All of products are engineered to be extremely dependable. When conversation recording is a critical need in your
organization, DUMAN provides the optimum security, reliability and flexibility.

Playback of archived recordings
DUMAN can rapidly locate old archived conversations and enables users to listen to them. You may search for an old
recording using each or all ofthe below criteria.
- Time and date of recording,
- Length of recording,
- Recorded channels.
- Stamps related to the recording, Caller ID lDialed number, DTMF,Outbound-inbound calls.
uthorized users can playback conversations or monitor live conversations from any remote PC that is equipped with a
'media sound card and DUMAN Client Software. The remote PC must be connected to the LAN or WAN using the 
protocol.

Con?dentiality

With DUMAN the monitored lines do not show anydrop in the quality, or any noise thatwill indicate tapping.

Specially designed DUMAN multi-permission user logins with password protection enables users, which are pre-de?ned by
authorized personnel only, to access, listen, copy or delete recordings.

Reports
DUMAN provides several reporting optionsfor users to reach daily or archived records.

Compatibility with standards
DUMAN server uses only industry-standard computer hardware.

In addition to the standard integrated high impedance ports that are suitable for parallel connection to the PSTN line or analog
PBX extensions, digital E1 lines
can be recorded by appropriate
options.

 

OpenArchitecture

DUMAN architecture enables
it to easily integrate it third party
applications. Same architecture
also allows the DUMAN to act
as a recording server and be
called from clients within your
existing IT applications.

 

Expandable

DUMAN is designed to grow
to address your ever changing
business needs. With expansion
boards or new cases system will
grow with more E1 or analog
connections.

    

LAN Connection



 

*Documents subject to ch?e without notice!

 

 

 

 

. 
-
bilgi teknoloji tasanr? ltd. I,
silicon block bk. 37 metu technopolis Mbra - TR
tel: +90 (312) 210 19 25 fax: (3121210 19 28
 
I

 

