 

Fax Demodulator Software

- 1 is an optional plug-in fortelephone
loggers. With DUMAN the logger application can convert
input audio WAVE-file into the output TIFF-file with facsimile
image. DUMAN stores converted images and gives to the
user possibility to view image together with transmission
parameters such as rate, peer stations identifiers,
compression and other parameters necessary. Also,
DUMAN can be supplied as in .dll and API form to
integrate with existing recording applicationsoption which enables logging of fax messages that are
captured by DUMAN (DUMAN DUMAN )series. Also, DUMAN can be
supplied as in .dll and API form to integrate with existing recording applications.

FaxLogger

With DUMAN the logger application can convert input audio WAVE-file into the
output TIFF-file with facsimile image. DUMAN stores converted images and gives
to the user possibility to view image together with transmission parameters such as rate,

peer stations identifiers, compression and other parameters necessary.
Decode
DUMAN is able to decode the fax signal conforming G711, v.21, V.27ter, v.29,

v.17, T.30, T4 and T6 recommendations.
With the powerful algorithm even noisy signals are successfully decoded.

View

Converted fax images are easily accessible through user friendly environment of
CORVUS telephone loggers. Fax image is accessible through a single mouse click.
User can easily zoom, rotate and export to another media such as recordable CD,
network location or another application.

Print
The fax images can be print out by any printer connected to the system.

Custom architecture

DUMAN is a specific plug-in for call voice recorders and bene?ts from all features of
it. Through same interface and connections it can be customized as necessary.

The specifications of fax module can be adjusted according to the host logger which are
capable of recording calls with enough resolution and without a lossy compression.

bilgi teknoloji tasanm ltd.

silicon block bk. 37 metu technopolis 06531 ankara - TR
tel: +90 (312) 210 19 25 fax: +90 (312) 210 19 28


 

. 

 

*Documents subject to change without notice!

