 

 

  
    
  

 

- a 853 Family member- 7
for Military and Intelligence organizations

 

 
  
  
     

 

 



. _Gite-sfinternal-F- 5   

 

 

   . .

      
  


SEFT, based on the-precise and uitra?fast 135-3 core engine, is a
Istand-alone um, identification system ready to be installed
in a portabie device;c_ieSigned' to record voices of suspects
in the field and do quick searches within a preloaded
database of targets of interest (up to woo speakers).

     
   
     
   
   
     
   
       
   
 
 
  
  

Features:  

- Voice Recording (or loading): Sll-T allows users to record
the voice of. suspects in the field (only 75 of net speech are
automatically converting them to the optimal
system settings; .

-. East search: SEFT aliows users to execute fast searches
into the' fare?loaded database identification) in a few
. seconds. The identification results consist of a short list of
posisi'bte' candidates with matching scores ranked from  
highest toi0west probability. .  8i . ..
i :xisedryes .. 

  

 
 
 

     

    

- Friendiy User interface: Easy to use user interface

providing together with the match a compiete profile of the 
suspect, incfuding biographicai info and picture allowing

thus a second visuai authentication process;

     

- Strong front-end capabilities: has strong front-end
capabilities (audio validation, Automatic Voice Activity
Detector (AVADD to remove artifacts, noises and non?voice
events;

interoperability: maintains a full connectivity and
interoperability with the Master Repository BS3 system
where ali voice models are stored and managed; 

0 Database management: allows users to introduce
biographical detaiis and pictures for easy identification of
potentiai candidate suspects. has been designed to
store up to 1,000 speakers.

 

 

     

   
  



   
  
 
 

  _g  j; 51Feature rich capabilities:

provides services comparable to existing Automatic

Fingerprint identification System (A-FES):

ion-Collecting voice biometrics information of known
"or Unknown? Suspects and reiated details 
2 on a Central database;

. . _Ii Comparing "fieid? samples (eg. intercepted cails) of
unknoan individual against voice biometric models
the Central database (or a sub-unit of it by
 applying criteria such as Gender or Language): 1 to 
identification. 

    
     
     
 
   
    
    
   

The identification resuits consist of a list of possible
candidates with matching scores (ranked from highest to
lowest probability to show that the audio test beiongs to
the suspect), - thus providing support for further
investigations. 

   
    
    
 
 

 has been designed to cater for different customers?
3 "requirements (smaii to. iarge depioyments). takes
advantages of client~server architecture: deployment
cost reduced, no disk space needed on the client?s PC,
data stored on the server with far greater security
controls, controi access and resources guaranteed, etc.

   
   
   
   
    

ASIS uses proprietary and pioneering voice
biometrics technology (text independent, channei
independent and language independent) based on
unique information extracted from an individual?s vocal 
tract, thus obtaining a high levei of accuracy and

reliability.

 

 

 
is  (is-sit??ibiit?e "steer;-cE-ienteerver whereby
S'?tee'rste?eo'nds?  wettest-s. aiming
Images; eggs :Zproyides identificatim


[ta new; reiq 38313:

t?qeit?l??t 

  
 
      

.   . aging-{e  to. :?eitipie

 

 

 'gag-a-;simtreaneous connections -

    

imes?ia?e?m?h?s   ire-esteem,

Ammo) - tead'ijng Voice . Biometric
Technoiagy fer. H'omi?iand Security: -

Recent independent tests conducted by International
Biometric Group (EEG) demonstrated 
superior voice biometric technotogy 

?Agnitio identified the correct voice within the
top 2 results 99.02% of the time using 60 seconds of audio
in a cross channel environment.?

International--Biometric-Group
unearth Consulligg inlezrnliuu
voice biometric consultants are avaiiable to
provide all the necessary expertise and support to our
clients woridwide in order to ensure the best results.
Consulting services include voice database creation,

basic and advanced training for users and system_

administrators.

.  
-  {amtchingismra?

 

 

    

Ilia-rice Elie-metrics Database

 

I z. Quin-mm Sp??rk?

.

--  ism million[yo-icesystered -

 

- ta: 59can 



   
 
   

grammes:
52%? mm
frame tj;

Surname g? 
catissama

5&5 {Laden

 

  

ASlSinterface  
- 5&3? tie-meet ?ee. . 
e2:  -

 

ASIS Architecture

      
 

 

    

 

 

   
   i' - -
    


 1 ?Madurai-5'

 


-info@agnitio.es

Headquarters: Madrid, Spain
+34 91512 24 3?

  I  

 

 

 

   



    

 

.. wastagepro-eased .
--  1an times

 

   

 

    the

    

BS3 Family

The 853 Family of products for speaker surveillance and
management for Military and intelligence organizations
consists of: I 

- BS3 Master Repository, designed to store and search
over a large number of Voice Targets;

- BS3 Strategic, designed for mass voice interception
and voice mining; 

- BS3Tacticai, designed for tactical voice surveillance;

0. SIFT (Speaker ID Field Toolkit), designed for agents in
the field. - 

BS3 Family products are easy to integrate in all current
platforms both in the command and control center and
in the field.

BS3 Family altows an incrementai deployment of all
voice surveillance tasks. from tactical to strategic
applications, from human voice gathering to electronic
sensors, guaranteeing easy information transfer
(communication and data exchange), compatibility and
scalability. 

853 Master Repository- 

 

2 Leading Voice Biometric
Technology for Homeland Security:

Recent independent tests conducted by internatiOnai'
Biometric Group (i813) demonstrated superior
voice biometric technology 

?Agnitio identified the correct voice within the top 2
results 99.02% of the time using 60 seconds of audio in a cross
channel environment?

 

international'Biometric-Group
Research consulting Inlegraiinu'

_inforrnatton Pyramid

voice biometric consultants are avaiiable to.

provide ail the necessary expertise and support to our

clients worldwide in order to ensure the best results: 
consulting services include voice biometrics workshops, inl0@agniti0m?5
advanced training for users and system integratorstbest Headquarters: Madrid, Spain
practices (please contact 6491512 2-4 1?

 

