     

 

 

 

           

 

 

Conform to lawful interception standards 

 

No impact on monitored network performance

 

Seamless integration into lSP?s infrastructure

 

Wire-speed, zero loss input traffic processing

 

 Dynamic target identification DHCP, RADIUS

 

Uni?ed management for all system components

 

Up to 1000 PM and active targets

 

Hardware accelerated probes for 

 

Support for several independent LEAs

 

"Continuous enhancements and support

ads. I  4420513 255 250

Vodarny 2%5/2 . +420 602 547 681;
6163 00 Brno, Czech Republic

 

   
   

Widespread information technologies provrde fast and

dynamic communication media even for criminals and
terrorists. To be able to guarantee pubiic safety, raw
enforcement agencies {tEAsl need to'identify, intercept
and analyze the content of the mailcrous communication.
provides law enforcement and government
agencies with the state of the art technology to solve the hey
part of the investigation process. Ll System
is the ideai instrument for coiiect-ing evidence from

wired lP?based networhs,

 

Architecture and implementation of the Ll System foiiows
international standards closely while heeping high flexibility
of the whole system. Therefore it can be depioyed in
different countries over the world and also easily modified
to meet national regisiative,

Li system of two main components - interception
probes and mediation device - which are deployed at iSP?s
site InterConne'ction of the components and schematic
instaliation are shown in the picture. Whole system is
managed through easy-to?use web interface compatible
ali most?used web browsers.

The interception probes are located at input part of the
processing chain. Traffic interception is based on the
provisioned targets and their dynamic identification by
analysis of (RADIUS, DIAMETER) or host control
(DHCP) systems. Their non?intrusive instailation and passive
operation mode guarantee invisibility in the networh.
Handover of the intercepted data is performed
by mediation device. Mediation device encapsulates data
stream into standardized format and forwards it to LEA
for further processing. I

    
 
 
  
 
    

 

MEDIATION DEVICE

 

RADIUS, DHCP

 

INTERCEPTION PROBES

   

tide" (once, RADEUS)
fr?uspeed probes

       
    
 

irritate-system
its - - erf-ai independentILEAs

I active targets

I II: tint-cation. andapthentication



 

 

 

Interception probe is the essential element of the system.-
It is processing networh traffic and searching for the traffic
yof interest. All intercepted traffic is forwarded to mediation
device for convarsion to handover format.

 Full-duplexlo monitoring .

 LR, 51} ?ber optics supported

Data export over dedicated I interface.
Support for 1.2 protocois (MPLS. VLAN, QinQ)

Standard rack-mountable form factor

 

Mediation devrce is the central part of the lawful intercep?

tion system. it is scalable and allows to increase volume

of intercepted traffic as wet! as number of controlled
- interception probes.

for standardized handover interfaces
Handles multiple interception probes
User friendly management interface

Standard rack-mountabie form factor

 

Please contact for pricing and additional

information about "this product.

 

