'; GXDUO
; Portable GSM Firewall and Analysis Tool
.*

The cellxion range of GX & UGX Cellular Intercept, Firewall & Analysis
products are designed to provide Law Enforcement, Security Services and
Military officers with a comprehensive set of tools to combat the growing
use of mobile communications technology in crime and terrorism.

KEY FEATURES
B Compact portable device designed for simple
deployment in a rucksack or sports bag and
supplied with Android Smart phone controller
(or optional Windows notebook pc).

Comprehensive identification of IMSI, lMEl
and TMSl information with dynamic control
capability including comprehensive denial
of service.

B Contains two fully functional commercial grade

B Simultaneous high speed acquisition of
handsets (> 200 per minute transceiver) acrass
two GSM networks.

200mW GSM transceivers (900/1800MHz or
850/1900MHz or custom combination) with
excellent RF performance in high multi-path
environments.
The transceivers are independently
configurable for all network parameters and
can transmit between 0.1 mW and maximum
power in 2dB steps.
Built-in 'environment monitor' to assess all
GSM networks in the area, their respective
configurations, and provide information
to optimize user configuration of the BTS
modules.

B The optional 'In Network Calling' allows calls
within the GX system (GSM only).
B cellxion 'Feels Like' function uses BCCH
manipulation to give a virtual power effect of
up to several hundred watts.
Comprehensive mySQL database featuring
handsets cross-referenced against IMEI, and
networks against PLMN.
B The unique cellxion software client and GUI
(graphical user interface) is consistent across
the entire range of cellxion GX & UGX cellular
intercept products.
Optional GX DUO Power Amplifier for vehicle
fitting to provide increased power capability to
20W per GSM transceiver channel.

B Optional Covert Call (TK) software application
to provide a covert call capability to lock a
target handset for direction finding using the
cellxion MSL or other suitable DF systems.
B Optional Measurement Reports (MR) software
application to provide handset geo-location
and a mapping interface using timing advance,
RxLev & RxQal measurement.

Cornnrrrr ~ aInl r orlfidenc e

For further information please contact sales on UK +44 (0)20 31 37 1637

US +l (704)248 6229 or email sales@cell>(ion,net

SPECIFICATION
B Dimensions: W256mrn X D250mm X H9Ornrn

B Each transceiver independently configurable

B Weight: 5kg

B Heat dependent fan assisted cooling

B Two 200mW GSM transceivers

B 110v or 220V ac mains power supply included

B Can be powered by battery, 12-32V DC, or mains via an
AC adaptor

B Amplifier automatically detected by client software

B Can be powered by lithium laptop batteries (not supplied)
B Optional Power amplifier for vehicle fitting to give 20W
GSM
B Power Amp runs off of 12-32Vdc input power, 24Vdc
recommended
B Transmit Power Control in 2dB steps down to 0.1mW
(130mW on Amp)
B GSM05.05 Receiver Compliance

B Commercial Grade hardware
B "Feels Like" function makes cell more attractive to UEs

B Integrated 802.1 1b/g Wireless Router
B lnternet facing firewall for remote client operation and
remote support
B Web server provides software for Client PCs
Web interface supports software updates for all modules

ALTERNATlVE CONFIGURATION
B Also available in GSM850/1900 variant [USA]
B Compatible with various Direction Finding (DF) equipment
for enhanced geo-location capability

