clel I i

:

l

Android OS Client
The Android OS Client works on Android ver 2.1 and higher smart phones
and allows for discrete remote control over the full range of cellXionls GX/
UGX products. The easy to use graphical interface communicates via WiFi
and allows covert control and data access of the accompanying Cellular
intelligence unit. The client software is held on the system controller
and can be loaded onto any Android smart phone, enabling a flexible
approach t o covert, remote control of the equipment.
Interrogate Mode is designed to force all
handsets in the coverage area of the GX system
to identify their lMSl and IMEI, store them into a
system database, and release the handsets back
to the commercial network in a non-destructive
manner.

KEY FEATURES
Runs on Android 2.1 or greater.
Requires WiFi for direct connection to
GX/UGX systems.
Recommended handsets: HTC Desire.
Galaxy S, Google Nexus One.

Targeted Mode (GSM only) is designed to force
all handsets in the coverage area of the GX
system to identify their lMSl and IMEI, store them
into a system database, and release the handsets
back to the commercial network in a nondestructive manner, with the exception of those
handsets designated as 'Targets'. They will be
locked to the system until they either go out of
range, or the system allows them to be released.

W Android Tablet compatible.

Firewall Mode (GSM only) is designed to force
all handsets in the coverage area of the GX
system to identify their lMSl and IMEI, store
them into a system database, and lock them,
thus controlling their capability to make or
received calls, SMSs, etc. The exception are
handsets designated as 'Operatives', which will
be released back to the commercial network in a
non-destructive manner.

DF Mode (Native GSM and UMTS via handover
to GSM) is designed to force all handsets in
the coverage area of the GX system to identify
their lMSl and IMEI, store them into a system
database, and release the them back to the
commercial Network. 'Targets' are then able to
be paged for the purposes of direction finding.

Commercial in confidenm

For further information please contact sales on UK +44 (0) 20 3137 1637

1

US +l
(704) 248 6229 or email sales@cellXion.net

GSM ENVIRONMENT SCAN
Android client view of all NSP recognised
W GSM and 3G networks distinguished
Colour coding for recognition
All relevant GC1 data displayed
Expansion to pick out recommended cells
Grading and quick selection of emulated frequencies

Environment scan
on Android

Recommended cells

Expansion of individual
transceiver configuration

Full list of individual
virtual transceivers

Priority Targets arranged
on Android

In-call status of Target
including measurement
reports

NETWORK CONFIGURATION
Full autonomous control of virtual transceivers
Expandable for manual control of settings
Global power set-up
Led status indicators

PRIORITY TARGET MANAGEMENT
Single page review of targets
Full control of target MS page and power setup
Measurement reports supporting geo-location
Simple icon details for call status

