Cellular phones are one of the continued biggest growth industries
world-wide, and the reliance on them is ever more important.
Information of all kinds is conveyed by cell phones, including voice,
text messaging, email and internet data. Whilst these devices are
highly immune t o interception, it is not uncommon for law enforcement
agencies to use spoof base station technology t o invoke a dialogue with
a target handset in order t o identify and ultimately locate such devices.

The cellxion NetSecure product is designed to
provide Government agencies with a method
of identifying the correct operation of mobile
handset identification technology and detect it's
unauthorised use in sensitive areas.
NetSecure works by monitoring signalling
information from legitimate GSM and UMTS
base stations in an area and building a "digital
fingerprint" of a normal operating environment.
This information is analysed over time to
establish normal operating heuristics and if a
change is detected a warning or alarm state is
established.

The NetSecure unit is highly portable, requires
low power, and also features a GPS interface
for accurate time stamping of events. The GPS
engine is also used as a timing reference to
further improve the accuracy of event detection
particularly in the UMTS domain.
A web interface is used for the configuration of
NetSecure devices, and SMTP/SMPP interfaces
are used for the propagation of alarms to either
email addresses or a mobile device via SMS. The
detection routines are fully automatic and require
no user interaction.

As well is having the ability to detect the correct
functioning of mobile handset identification
technology, NetSecure can be used to identify
potential espionage risks for cell phone users
who are in sensitive areas such as:
Embassies
Government buildings (such as police
headquarters)
Military installations

Commercial in confidence

For further in#orrna%ionplease contact sales on UK +44 (0) 20 3137 1637 ' US +l(704) 248 6229 or email salemlMon.nest

KEY FEATURES
B Self contained high-speed GSM/UMTS wideband digital
receiver
B Selectable technology modes: GSM only, UMTS only or both
(CDMA under development)
Available in 900/1800/2100 or 850/1900/2100 frequency
variants
B All networks detected, analysed and continuously monitored
B Self-Teaching algorithms to learn local cellular environment

B Three level alarm status:
- No Alarm
-Warning (small change detected)
-Alarm (highly probable detection of spoofing)
B Alerts for detection of event, and when event expires
B Alerts delivered by email through internal SMTP client or
optionally by SMS via internal SMPP client
B Programmable via simple Web interface

B Highly adaptive change recognition sohare

B Web interface provides a visual indication of all cells and
associated information in the area of operation

B Minimum user interaction required -true "power and go"
functionality

U Compact Size: 34mm X 76mm X 165mm

LED status "comfort/alarm" indicator

B Low power consumption

