 PLATFORM

The CIP is a highly sophisticated
but simple to use intelligence

Utilising a versatile mapping interface the CIP provides an
integrated platform for monitoring, controlling, archiving
and disseminating surveillance product from a wide
variety of operational sources.

An operational command and control component,
which provides the operational team with ability to log
all events, actions and tasks associated with running a
complex operation.

Real time alerts on your desktop when a "trigger
event" occurs.

SECURE   L. 

 

 

 

Powerful database tools which allow generic and
operational data sets to be imported, integrated and geo-
located with all the other operationally critical surveillance
products.

Varied levels of user access to enable greater control
over dissemination of information.

Integrates and geographically displays;
ANPR feeds.
Overt/Covert video feeds with DOMD
(Differentiating Optical Motion Detection).
Tracking inputs.
Sepura radio GPS inputs.

 

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Screenshot 5

GPS inputs from mobile or vehicle Airwave radios can be
tracked in real time on the map.

 

Screenshot 3?

Plotted searches from external datasets can be geo-
located on the map. Free text searching can also be
performed over all data sets within the system.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Screenshot 6

Real time and historic tracker journeys can be displayed
on the map and alerts generated when defined geozones
are activated or a confluence of two trackers occurs.

 

 

 

Screenshot 8

FACTS (Fast Action Command Tasking System) is a
surveillance logging module ideal for tasking and action
management in either high threat or routine operations.

 

 

Screenshot 1

A dynamic mapping system scaled from 250k to Master-
map allows the user to layer and manage multiple assets
including Overt and Covert CCTV feeds, ANPR and GPS
feeds.

 

 

 

Screenshot 3

Real time alerts from Overt or Covert CCTV cameras can
be managed and reviewed using the integrated Visual
Intelligence Centre (VIC) module.

 

 

Screenshot 2

Aerial photography from the Pictometry library has been
integrated into the CIP and aligned with the mapping
system.

 

 

 

Screenshot 4

ANPR hot list driven alerts show how ANPR cameras can
be controlled for covert operations through the ANPR
module.

 

 

gpeci?mtions

 

 

 

Screenshot 9

FACTS logs can be geo-Iocated on the map and colour
coded according to priority.

 
 
  




AeroSpace Defence Security 

 

 

 

 

ammu?umm um -

Screenshot 19
The Image Management module has the functionality to
upload, manage and tag images as well as the ability to

show fast briefing sheets.

 

OBJECTIVE

The TVM Convergent Intelligence Platform (CIP) has been
designed and built by TransVisual Media working in
close collaboration with our customer. The CIP allows all
the component teams to work together on a common
software platform to capture, analyse, manage and then
visualize all of the data associated with running complex
covert operations.

The CIP turns data into information and then that
information into intelligence. The CIP is designed to
deliver this intelligence to the right people at the right
time to assist them in making the right decisions. The
CIP delivers comprehensive command and control
functionality via the integrated FACTS tasking and
action management system to allow the operation to be
managed to a conclusion quickly and accurately.

The CIP has been built to conform to stringent security
requirements and uses only ?approved? software
platforms, tools and diodes.

1 Capture and Analysis

The CIP answers the question "How can you make it
easier to manage covert surveillance operations whilst
adhering to strict evidential standards?"

ponop?cn

2 Manage

The CIP answers the question "How do you manage
all of the information generated by covert surveillance
operations?"

3 Visualise

The CIP answers the question ?How do you support your
senior officer?s decision making processes to reduce risk
and deliver results??

4 Command and Control

The CIP answers the question "How do you manage
team tasking and action management in a fast-moving
operation and ensure that the live intelligence accrued
can be digested and actioned in real-time to the benefit
of the operation and to maximise the value of the
intelligence gained??

5. FACTS

helps surveillance commanders to co-ordinate and log the
actions of their surveillance teams, to evidential standards.
It opens up key intelligence assets to other members of
the wider surveillance community by placing these assets
on the secure network in real time.

Cedar House. Anceiis Easiness Park, Ancelis Road.
F?eet. Hampshire. GUST ZUN

  

 
 

 

