ComTrail

Unified Monitoring Platform for
Triple-Play Networks
ComTrail is an integrated product suite for
centralized lnterception and Monitoring of Voice
& Data Networks. ComTrail unified platform
comprises of multiple modules, each addressing
surveillance of a specific communication network
type such as PSTN, GSM, CDMA, GPRS,
EDGE, 3G, Wi-Max, VSAT, large Data Service
Providers & Transmission Networks. These
probe 1 switch based modules can be deployed
in isolation or unity to serve targeted and mass
monitoring requirements.
The platform is equipped with advanced analysis
engine for pro-active analysis of thousands of
connections to quickly arrive at conclusion and
limit intelligence leakage. Integrated with various
value added tools such as Link Analysis, Voice
Recognition, GIS, Target Location etc it
immensely improvises investigative effectiveness
and efficiency.

ComTrail consists of the following subsystems:
The lnterception 81Delivery Function
Deployed within a service provider network, it
facilitates both switch based interfacing and
intuitive probing of links, with the help of
indigenously developed intelligent access
devices

The Monitoring Function
Set up at LEA HQ, Monitoring Function enables
surveillance and investigation management.
When deployed as an unified platform, it
facilitates correlation of Voice & Data intercepts
across diverse networks to provide a
comprehensive intelligence picture. ComTrail UI
coupled with smart analysis tools provide easy
access to requisite information besides record,
replay and archiving. Monitoring Function is a
highly scalable component governed by
proprietary algorithms that can efficiently handle
data size up to Petabytes.

313.5 G
Mobile
Network!

?-

lnvestigatiof~~~~dnagemei
System Management
Information Collaboration
Health Monitorina
Work Flow Managemen'
l

Wi-Max
Networks

ComTrail
Intercepts
Replays
?ore-

l,",.lord Search
Content CO-relation
Automated Search
Court Evidence

smet Monitor
voice Monitorir~~
Video Monitoring

l

Content Analysis

I

Data and Voice Replay

Any communicationType
ComTrail supports capture, record & replay of a
variety of Voice & IP communications:
GSMICDMNPSTNVoice Calls
- MMS
- SMS
- FAX
- 100s of VolP Application based calls
- Text Chats ( MSN, YAHOO, ICQ, DlGlCHAT
etc.)
- Web Mails ( Gmail, Yahoo, Hotmail, Maqtoob
Mail etc.)
- FTP
SMTP
- POP3
- BlackBerry (in clear text)
Other P2P communications

-

-

From any type of Network
ComTrail intercepts data from any network
technology- Wire line, Wireless, packet data,
VolP networks:
- T11E1 to STM1, STM4, STM 16
- Fast Ethernet up to 40 Gigabits

Data lnterception
When deployed for lnternet Gateway monitoring,
ComTrail enables an investigator to filter data on
the basis of 375 attributes across 15 protocols.
This includes pure keyword based filtering
without any URL IIP Address based
combinations. The product provides record and
replay facility for webmails, Email attachments,
VolP, Chats, FTP and many more lnternet
transactions.
Voice lnterception
ComTrail is compatible with a variety of switch
specifications for correlation of CC & CRI in line
with CALEA, ETSl and other regional LI
compliance standards. Its smart probing
technology can automatically detect CIC map
while directly interfacing with the links without
any help from the service provider.
Workflow Management
ComTrail's workflow management allows system
operators to manage the target information in a
hierarchical manner with facility for session
archive and allocation of targets to investigators,
besides linking sessions with the target. An
investigator can perform powerful search and
analysis operations on the captured lnterndt /
Voice sessions to zoom on critical intelligence.

In-built Security Measure
ComTrail can be extended easily to adapt to a
workflow, security, authorization, auditing and
other constraints in a large deployment spanning
multiple organizations, with strict judicial
regulatory oversight.
Health Monitoring
The ComTrail health monitoring subsystem
centrally monitors all its components for more
proactive maintenance and greater system
uptime. It displays hardware, software, and
system functionality status using an intuitive,
easy-to-understandgraphical user interface.
Alarms and events are triggered based on userdefinable thresholds and are accompanied by
detailed troubleshooting information.
Data Management Platform
ComTrail provides selective and comprehensive
storage of full session traffic for future analysis
coupled with Auto Deletion, Archive
Maintenance, and Backup capabilities.The
system can run 24x7 with minimal administration
overheads.

Following are the salient features of this platform
- Consistent & Predictable Performance
overtime
- Linearly Scalable for various Functional
Elements
- Designed for High Speed & High Data Loads
- Optimized for Response Time and
Throughput
- Designed to use Multi-Core Hardware
Capabilities
- Leverages High Density Server technologies
- Supports Meta Data collection for post event
analysis
- Lays foundation for Post Analysis Correlation,
Context Analysis, Image Processing, Content
Classification & Reporting, Speaker
Recognition, Voice Transcription, Keyword
Spotting, etc.

.sa!3ua6eluau1a3104uaMe1 paz!loqlne A q paalonpuoo S! pue Me1 A q pau!wlad S! uo!lda31alu!InFe1 qons alaqm sa!llunoe U! 4uo asn 104 papualu! ale spnpo~dasaql

