QuickTrail

One click surveillance of
public internet networks

When it comes to gathering intelligence from
public internet networks then ISP monitoring
sokrtion is a time consuming process which may
result in loss of critical and vital clues. Also, ISP
side monitoring fails to track the suspect's
identity especially if the target is operating from
a Cyber Cafe, University Campus or Free Wi-Fi
Zones at Airport Lounges 1 Shopping Malls etc.
Moreover, field surveillance of public internet
networks can provide enhanced investigative
leads, high evidence value and in some cases
even physical identification of the targets.
QuickTrail is designed for such field operations. It
is one of its kind system in the world that is fitted
with unique Swiss-Knife approach to support a
number of monitoring scenarios encountered in
public internet networks like Hotels, Cyber
Cafes, University Campuses, Free Wi-Fi Zones.
QuickTrail is equipped with multiple monitoring
tools & techniques that can help intercept almost
any Wired, Wi-Fi or Hybrid lnternet Network so
that a targeted communication can be monitored
one way or the other. This laptop computer
based highly portable device can be deployed in
fractions of seconds to intercept, reconstruct,
replay & analyze email, chat, VolP and other
lnternet activities of a target.

Full Network Visibility
Unique solution that supports interception of
WiredMli-Fi and hybrid LANs from single point
interface:
- From Wi-Fi to Wi-Fi
- From Wired to Wired
- From Wi-Fi to Wired & vice-versa (hybrid
networks)
This All-in-one Device supports real time
monitoring through inbuilt interception,
reconstruction and viewing interface on same
device

Multi Mode Interception
Set of nifty monitoring tools integrated on single
laptop computer, works like a Swiss-knife,
complementing both active as well as passive
interception.
Passive lnterception
Portable System can scan all 14 Wi-Fi
channels, while capturing data of
3 concurrent channels
- Chassis based full 14 channel concurrent
capturing system also available on request
Supports real-time cracking of WEP. WPAPSK crack under development
- Also supports wiretapping of Ethernet LANs

-

Please turn overleaf

Intercept Secured
Communication
Know Passwords
with c-Jack Attack

Active & Passive lnterception
of Wi-Fi and Wired LAN

,

I

All-in-one
Solution

Active lnterception
100% target data interception
- Target machine identificationon the basis of
IP Address, MAC ID, Machine Name, Activity
Status and several other parameters.

-

Smartest way to overcome today's biggest IP
monitoring challenge i.e. encryption, only known
solution to intercept SSL Passwords & HlTPS
based communication like banking transactions,
Webmail etc. in real time.
Protocol Decoding Support
- HlTP, SMTP, POP3
- HlTPS

-

Capture, Reconstruct
and Replay

News Groups
Webmails (Yahoo, Gmail, Hotmail and many
other Webmails)
Various Chat Clients (Yahoo, ICQ, MSN,
PalTalk etc)
Many VolP clients
Password Capture

Centralized Management
Multiple such field units can connect to a central
command center to remote manage field
operations at geographically different locations.

1)1 Clear~rail<>

Clearnail Technologies

Empowering Intelligence

These prod&

am Intended for use only in cwntries when, such linvhrl intermplion is permitted by law and is mnducted by authorized law -1

info@cf-trail.com

agendes.

