Security and
Policina
Integrated systems for vehicles and personnel

Integrated Person and Vehicle Solutions

Seamless Integration of
Power, Video and Data

!personal area networks
!power, data and video

ership with
Ultra Electronics

Engineering Edge
At Cosworth,we areworking with our customers to
engineer a better future where things go further. We
have successfuliy transferred the "CosworthDNA"
developed over five decades as a Leading technology
provider in warld motorsport to markets such as
aerospaceand defence. Our engineeringteams in the
UK and USA useagile development methods,working
closely withour rustarners to adapt and $ewnkssly
integrate ssolutionsto evolving needs.
We are constanffy looking for new markets to toappty
our technohgy and engineeringskills, and have set
our sights on the emerging technology dernandsof
the poiicing and security sector.

Integrated Vehicle Electronics

Control Systems, Data
Systems, Displays and
Recorders
Our Key Products and Services
Wearable etectronics- we supply Low power
electronic products and related services to power
and connect portable electronic systems worn on the
body such as tablets, PDAs,radios and cameras.
P e m n -vehicle integration - we providethe Latest
praducts,technologiesand services for improving
the integration between occupants and vehicles. For
example,inductive power charging between occupant
and vehicle seat, or Bluetooth data connectivitywith
the vehicLe.
Mobiledata - we supply the latest in wireless
products and services for two-way data and video
connectivity between vehicles, occupants and central
serwces.

nd Data Recording

1

instrumentation!

I

Vehicle systemsand services- we provide high tech
electronic and mechanicalvehicle related products
and services including:
71 controls, recorders,displays and camera systems
from our existing range of electronic products.
71 bespoke electronic design services
a integration services
71 vehicle electronic research, monitoring and
interrogation services
71 power-train improvements

Track Record
Up to 2009
Cosworth is a premier supplier of mechanicaland
electronic solutions to the professtonal motorsport
industry,inc!uding engines and car-to-pitdectronics,
and softwaredesign and integration services.Our
products range from control inputs, ruggedised
displays, electrical power management, data
recording and control systems, wearableetectronics,
telemetfyand b&a analysis.The sports markets
remains at the earn of our business, with itsendurina
drive for im~mvesnentseeding many ofour
innovations.

2010
As partof ourdiversification s2rategy.wewere the
first to apply motorsport accident data recording
techndogy to characterise the impact of blast on
board vehiclesto improve safety.This remains an
on-going pr@rarnrne with the UK MOO today.

201 1
In 2001,we transitloned adaptableengine
management +stems from motorsprsrt to the
defence environment,to optimise the efficiency of
mititary vehictes, extending range. and reducing fuel
use and operating costs.

2012
We devetopedand integrated H0 videoand data
recording system for high end passenger vehicles,
seamlessty augmenting high definition video
with vehiclqdata,+tbwing drivers to retive their
experience and improve their ability.
In 201 2 we a l w built on our power management
and wearable electronics experience to develop a
wearable secure hub for embedded wired transfer
of power and data around a soldiers torso, with
inductive power transfer between the individual an0
his seat.

Contact Us
If you would like to speak with us about your needs, or any of our products andservices, please get in touch.
Cosworth, Brookfield Technology Centre,Twentypence Road, Cottenham.Cambridge. CB24 8PS
email: security@cosworth.com

