creativity software

Location Lawful Intercept
High Accuracy Location Solutions

mobile location Information

Creativity Software (CS) offers a solution that enables the real time location of all mobile devices, across all mobile
networks, with the highest level of accuracy available. CS offers a location range (from Cell-id to Accuracy+) appropriate to budget and specification. Integration to existing monitoring systems is made easy thanks to a standard based
architecture. The solution supports multiple map sources and the company is experienced in map data creation. With
these core components Creativity Software is able to offer a truly invaluable and reliable end to end solution.

Creativity Software delivers against the needs af Law Enforoement & Intelligence Agencies:
Use location data to reduce crime, prevent terrorism and identify other security threats.
Locate all mobile handsets anywhere in country at any time:
With high levels of location accuracy.
Without the knowledge of the person being located
Without the ability of the person to prevent themselves being located
On all network types (GSM, CDMA, 3G and LTE)
Whether the mobile handset is indoors or outdoors
Even if the handset is using a SIM from another Country (Roaming)
Whenever the phone is switched on - 24171365
Whether a call is being made or not
Without any software needing to be loaded onto the phone itself

with deploymerrts m turope, Mmle tast, Arnencas, Africa & Central,
Lawful

[ntnrcnnt
. >

. .

- -.-.
..

-

I

Specialists
.:, In. High Accuracy Location Based 53wvi-q

'

-*i..
A

-'

r-

-L

4

A .

.

.i-iL*$

a

' aU'$,- c

-

?PI -"
2'
/- ;$h%??
4-

%.&+CR"
4 ?B@@@

'S

,

"F
<%S

V

creativity software
CENTRALIZED PLATFORM
AT LEA MONITORING CENTRE

Overview of High Accuracy platForm:
>>

>

LEA will typically instalvintegrate centralized location
monitoring equipment alongside existing voicddata
monitoring systems
The Mobile Location Centre (LocationWise) will be
connected to all the Mobile Network Operator (MNO)
systems. Using specialist software algorithms it automatically determines the specific location of all mobile
phones with highest accuracy available in the market.
LocationWise integrates to all radio network vendor
equipment, supporting 2G, 3G, 4G and CDMA.
The tracking application (L1 Client) integrates seam
lessly to LocationWise to present the data to monitoring officers.

The LI Client is a rich monitoring application with
sophisticated geo-fencing, tracking, and alerting
features, allowing LEASto:
Locate and track, single or multiple persons of interest
Replay a suspect's movements over time
Define "geo-fences" in order to trigger alerts when
individual or multiple suspects enterlleave certain
areas, or come within proximity of each other
Specify agents' mobile numbers that are pre-authorised to locate targets via SMS
Relate suspect to agent location in real time
Organise cases into folders with specific permissions
Exploit a range of mapping options and different layers
of map data and digital imagery
Export data to retention & analytics systems
Engage Mass Tracking using Passive Data Collection
(PDC)

-

Contact us
For more information about how Creativity Software can
enable your Lawful Intercept requirements please visit:
www.creativitysoftwere.net
or contact us at:
salesOcreativitysoftware.net

