• I t

• to- •

'

,

C
R
Y
P
T
O
N
-M

The' I n f o r m a t i o n S t r E C I M
Technology I n f o S t r E a m

The information stream technology infoStream is intended
for the tasks of Information retrieving from the intemet sites, its
processing, systematization. generalization and providing
access to it.

Scanning

This technology provides:
• Obtaining of the current news from the Internet;
• Forming of subject-matter information channels which
are characterized by completeness of the information;
• Forming of personal information channels through special inquiries;
• Interactive access to information from workstations in
search and viewing modes through corporate network;
• Forming of automatic subject-matter digests, construction of the phenomena interrelations tables and phenomena
distribution diagrams.
The core of the InfoStream content engine Is the
information retrieval system InfoReS-XL. The system provides
Information processing in three basic modes:
• Information selective distribution (1SD);
• Interactive access to full text databases;
• Content monitoring.

-43•

InfoStream

The information
Collection and Processing
Stream-Center

The Stream-Center
of the Access
to DataBases

The ISD mode is used in two basic processes - for the
inforrnation search on stored users' inquiries and for the classi•
fication of the system input information.
The mode of the interactive access to the databases is
offered as corporate decision. As the basis for its implementation there are programmed and technological means of databases with documents received from the Internet ovation and
of providing an access to them. In this mode data reviewmg,
search and displaying are provided for the users. In addition,
users have the opportunity to refer to the original documents in
the Network.
Perspective direction of the InfoStream technology
development today is the content-monitoring • means to
accomplish the tasks of forming of subject-matter information
channels, digests, phenomena interrelations tables and separate phenomena distribution diagrams,

The Content Monitoring
Stream-Center

• Fast access to the most topical information as it appears
in the Internet;
• Work with a checkable set of sources;
• Connecting of the operators workstations to information
space, duly reminding and pushing the profile information;
• Providing operators purposeful work, elimination of the

attention &vetting factors that are intrinsic to the Internet;
• Control the Information retrieved by corporate network•,
workstations;
• Reliability of the information delivery;
• Protection of the data, confidentiality.
Due to the high search characteristics of content engine
(efficiency, completeness and relevance), as well as the presence of the indivisible protected interface, the IntoStream tech.
nology promotes significant Increase of the efficiency and qual•
ity of analytical work.
C O M P R E H E N S I V E EIOLLITION FMR I N T E R C E P T I O N A N D

In comparison with traditional technologies the introducting of the InfoStream provides following advantages:

MONITORIN

C RY P T O N - M L t d ,
Te l . , 3 8 0 4 4

A N A LY S I S
C
R
Y
P
T
O
N
-M

Analysis
Workstation ( A 0 W )

Purpose:
AOW is designed for the technical analysis and automatic
or manual demodulation setting of the facsimile and modem
messages parameters, which are incorrectly processed by a
facsimile or modem server, or are prodessed with many errors
or are incorrectly classified and are sent by the operator for reprocessing.
The software package of a analysis operator work station
Includes more than 100 functions, on the basis of which the
following operations of the analysis are possible:
• Time and frequency analysis of sessions;
*Correction and editing of sessions (frequency shift,
change of sampling frequency, conversion of a record format,
filtering of signals etc.);
• Demodulation of facsimile transmission;
• Demodulation of modem transmission.

The programs of demodulation of modem transmissions.
The programs of demodulation of modem lranSMISSiOnS
provide demodulation of files of records of modem sessions.
The program allows to process sessions appropriate to the following ITU-Ts recommendations:
• V,21, V.22
V.32bis, V.33, V.34. V.90;
• V,42, V.42bis and MNP 1-5 protocols;

•••t,

-•••• 4 4 . • • 1 4

The operator has a possibility over a wide range to
change a tuning of parameters of demodulators (frequency
carrier, type of the protocol, character rate, parameters of an
echo-compensator etc.).

The programs of a time-and-frequency analysis allow
to:
• view the time form of sessions and its spedral representation on areas which length is equal 128, 256, 512, 1024,
2048. 4096, 8192 samples;
• produce measurement time, amplitude and frequency
characteristics of a signal with the help of cursor;
• view variation of a signal spectrum in time.
The programs of demodulation of facsimile transmissions,
The programs of demodulation of facsimile transmissions
provide demodulation of files of records of facsimile sessions.
The program allows to process sessions appropriate to the following ITU-Ts recommendations:
• V.27. V.27ter, V.29, V.17.;
• Processing of fax sessions Group 3 (130 arid 14) and
Group 4 (T.8);
• Decoding and error correction of MH, Mn, MMR, ECM
protocols and proprietary protocols of the fax machines manufacturers.

Visual inspection of the program of demodulation is provided. The basic information on operation of the demodulator
is displayed on monitor screen as signal constellation. The
additional information the operator gets on the screen of Monitor in form of the messages about status of an Output tile of the
task and condition of the demodulator with possibility of review
of results of demodulation in bit form.
The programs of correction and editing of communication sessions allow:
• to set a frequency shift;
• to adjust a sampling rate;
• to convert record formats;
• to change amplitude;
• to insert pauses;
• to generate tone and OTMF;
• to eliminate a constant component;
• to carry out a filtering of a session.

C O M P R E H E N S I V E S O L U T I O N F O R I N T E R C E P T I O N ANID
mONiTORiNSiN TELECOMMUNICATION NETWORK-5

C RY P TO N - M L t d .
te 1-a8 04144 6670 F a x +380442514133. M a iI: syrolP4okrpack Alet

Aimmw•
wffifilla

•••10 0
-,

A V I O N

C
R
Y
P
T
O
N
-M
Purpose
The system is intended for reception and processing of sessions transmitted in data networks.
Components and Block Diagram

Database Server
• The addresses of interest table contains not lass than
20, 000 records;
• Search of the session-related and accompanying information of required sessions;
• Possibility of generating and processing of complex and
cross database queries;
• Possibility of storage of up to 1, 000, 000 records.

WAN

d5F

•q•A

'4

L„.1
v r. r •

L
rm•

• Temporary storage of the processed data;
Remote Control Station
• Remote control on WAN-LAN interface of the monitoring
equipment installed at ISP nodes;
• Functionality control of the monitoring equipment installed
at ISP nodes.

P

Monitoring of data networks is based on processing of information transmitted in LAN/WAN lines of the INTERNET service
providers (ISP).
The Data Monitoring System is a geographically distributed
system: the part responsible for input and preliminary processing
of layers 1 - 3 of OSI ISO protocols is located in 1SP premises,
and the part responsible for processing of sessions is located at
a monitoring center. Both parts are connected between themselves by means of the local area network through WAN communication lines.
The system consists of the following subsystems:
• input Subsystem;
• Subsystems of Processing Sessions;
• Management and Administration Subsystems_
The system may include a number of Input Subsystems,
Which are responsible for monitoring LANANAN line of different
ISPs.
Structure and Purpose of Subsystems
Input Subsystem
• Reception of 32 simplex El trunks:
• Reception of information on the Ethernet 10/100 Mb interface:
• Detection of IF addresses of transmitting and receiving
parties;
• Selection of sessions by IP addresses with the table of
selection not less than 16, 000 addresses), with assignment of
an appropriate priority to the selected massage;
• Selection of sessions by domain names (with the table of
selection not less than 16. 000 names), with assignment of an
appropriate priority to the selectee message;
• Transmission of selected sessions to a monitoring center.
Data Storage Server
• Recording of up to 10 Gb of data transmitted from the
monitoring equipment installed at ISP nodes;
• Decoding and unpacking of the received sessions;

File Server
• Storage of session-related information of E-mail messages
not less than 5 days;
• Possibility of storage of 35 Gb of E-mail messages
records.
Code Translation Server
• Automatic recognition of layers 5-7 of OSI ISO protocols
and processing of session files with a total size of up to 10 Gb
per day;
• Generating output session files according to the original
format of the intercepted files.
Search Server
• Recognition of file coding type ;
• Recognition of the language used in an intercepted message;
• File conversion to ASCII format;
• Indexing of text files;
• Search in text files for keywords and strings of characters
(keywords combinations).
System Administrator Workstation
• System management and functionality control;
• System Administrator controlStne work of operators,
defines their tasks and distributes werldoad between them;
• System Administrator generates information on the configuration of the equipment and software of the system and saves it
in the database for use by other system components;
• System Administrator generates the lists of the users and
targets and saves them in the database;
• System Administrator defines access rights of all users to
resources and data of the system.
Operator Workstations
• Execution of the job defined by the System Administrator;
• Generating search queries in the database for obtaining
access to the recorded sessions and session-related information;
• Analysis of sessions by listening to or viewing them:
• Generating a report file about the contents of sessions
after listening to or viewing them.
COMPREHENSIVE SOLUTION FOR INTERCEPTION ANO
M O N i T O R I N G I N T E L E C O M M U N I C AT I O N N E T W O R K S

C RY P T O N - M L t d .
Te1+1904445670B3. Fax 4804142514133. e-Mail: syroyeauk(pack lie/

C
R
Y
P
T
O
N
-M
Purpose of the System
The system is designed to extract and process voice,
fax and modem sessions from digital trunks
Composition of the System
• Input Subsystems;
• Database;
* File-Server;
* Fax/Data Processing Server;
• OCR (Optical Character Recognition) Server;
• Archive Server:
• System Administrator;
• Operator Workstations;
• Print-Server.
Extraction of Information From Duplex or Simplex Digital
Trunks
• The system can detect the following types of duplex or simplex digital trunks
—G.703 HDE33;
—V.35
—Synchronous data (information plus clock cycles).
• One Input Subsystem can handle from 4 to 8 two-way trunks;
• Number of input subsystems - from 1 to 8.

ing ITU-T recommendations:
—V.27, V.27ter. V.29, V.17.
• The supported:
—MH, MR, MMR, ECM;
—proprietary protocols.
'Convert fax image into TIFF format and save in the required
directory;
• Fax-server can process up to 50 sessions simultaneously or
more than 60.000 pages per day.
Demodulation and Decoding of Modem Sessions in
Leased and Dial-up Channels
• Demodulation of modem sessions in leased charnels in
accordance with the following ITU-T recommendations:
—V.22, V.22bis, V.26, V.26bis, V.27, V.29, V.32, V.32bis,
V.33;
• Demodulation of modem sessions in dial-up channels in
accordance with the following a n recommendations:
—V.21, V.22
• The following error correction protocols are supported:
—ITU-T V.42 recommendation, MNP 1 through 4,
• The following data compression protocols are supported:
—ITU-TV.42bis recommendation, MNP 5.

Processing of Signaling Data and Number Analysis
• The system can detect and process voice, fax and modem
sessions which are transmitted using the following signaling standards:
—Telephone Signaling Standard #5, R1, R1.5, P2, DTMF,
R2D, SSia, ISDN, EDSS.
• Called and calling subscriber number can be determined;
• Search of sessions by a complete or a partial number;
• Database can store up to MOOD numbers each with relevant
priority to supped session search by telephone number.

Optical Character Recognition In Fax Sessions,
Information Search in Recorded Sessions by Keywords (Key
Expressions)
• Recognition of a text header in a fax session;
• Detection of graphic images and their comparison against
graphic images bank;
• Recognition of English. German, French and Russian letters;
• Recognized characters are written to a file in ASCII code;
• Scanning of ASCII tiles for keywords and character strings
(keywords groups);
• Automatic creation of a report (annotation) about a fax session.

Detection of Session Typo (Voice, Fax or Modem) and
Recording of Sessions

Search, Playback and View Recorded Sessions by
Operators
• Operators perform tasks detemlined by System
Administrator;
• Operators can create database search queries to access
recorded sessions and session-related information;
'
• Production of a report lite about session contents alter playing back or viewing the session.

• Classification of sessions by type: voice, tax, modem in real
time:
• Possibility of filtering sessions by type (voice, fax, modem);
• The system can compress voice sessions in 2:1, 4:1 or 10:1
mita;

Storage of Session-Related and Additional Information
• Session-related and additional information is stored in relational database;
• Database interacts with all system components and handles
search queries of Operators and System Administrator;
• Numbers of interest list can contain at least 20,030 entries;
• Search of session-related and additional information of
required sessions;
• Possibility to create and handle advanced and cross queries:
• The system can detect Database tables fill and automatically
delete sessions and entries using a predetermined atgorithm,
• Automatic archiving (recovery) of Database tables:
*Automatic backup of information in Database tables.
Demodulation and Decoding of Fax Sessions
• Processing of Croup 3 ( 730 and 1.4) and Group 4 (T.6) fax
sessions;
• Demodulation of fax sessions in accordance with the follow-

System Management, Functionality Monitoring and
Maintenance
• System management, functionality monitoring and maintenance are preformed from System Administrator workstation;
• System Administrator controls Operators, determine their
tasks and workload;
• System Administrator determines hardware and software
configuration of the system and stores this information in the system
Database to make available to the other system components;
• System Administrator determines user groups and target lists
and stores them in the system Database;
• System Administrator determines access rights for all users
to the system resources and data.
C O M P R E H E N S I V E R V I_LITION F O R I N T E R C E P T I O N A N D
M O N I T I O R I N O I N T E L E C O M M U N I C AT I O N N E T W O R K S •

C i t Y P TO N - M L t d .
1

C
R
Y
P
T
O
N
-M
Multichannel system of reception and information processing of satellite channels POISK
The POiSK system is a multichannel system of reception
and information processing of satellite channels which provides
radio monitoring of the information transmitted in satellite communication systems channels such as Intelsat, Eutelsat, etc.),
The POISK system provides signal reception in L-band,
demodulation, decoding and descrambling of up to 80 carriers
simultaneously and transmission of information to a local area
network (LAN) for further processing.

SPECIFICATION
Number of chanr10

j_.-p to 8 0

Turdoz;
Nontilta] Rozo•ive Loyd:

950 Niliz to 2,150 M I L Rese] olio a bcttcr than 1 kliz

Riinio v t
nonnnal

. 11

-45 dBut ] 0 llogilS192a) (dLint)

R - data tatc• in Kbp.c.
•25 clEid
25 olifilN
7

Ma s Input Power L e d
Enput Imptdiincc
,Inpul Rerorn 1 oss

I ype I', 1Ethernet I 0011lose R.1-1I tor IA) chrinr,e1 group;

I n p u t COIITHICCOI

()Lout coltoe•016/:

nod 55•422 for mozry chino&

CLITIICT A cquislitcal
Se-sequi

P•rogrammable op to z2 Mti?.. in NM. He s t e
I ieoond, with 9501i• probability. rollo will g AltOrt-terrIt
CRItiligt

Min 1 b-rNo

4.0 dB, Viurtit, operation

Scroonbhrig
MiKtulation Formul
Dais R Lilti

'
QRSk.' BPSK ( P S K JO ()4At m tiewei
04 to all 92 Klips IDI'SK. 1or tigitcs - nptian:i
32 to 1024 Kbps BPSK

FEC.

IL!, 3.'4 rod 7 1 rote Constraint Lertath 7 Vitabi Jractsal

ikco4ing

Lh1tllA

12, 1 4 and 715 row DVB compliant ( 0 i 1 C 3 I C
Solomon.' N'iterbi Decoding t o p t
Oilier

so)
no••• 0.704
•time slot
I SG - 260V (or 5ti-Il2 v ),, frequency 4/ -f., H e

Ritming
Power

N:SN
Fig. 1 Appearance of the PCISK system rminimum configuration)
and its application In a radio monitoring system ot satellite communication channels

LNB L N B

LNB

&nen*
,IIsh
Cnnverter C.X.Au Ks blind
In L.boncl

• SWITCH •

The POISK system represents a hardware-software complex with its main components combined by a local area network
(LAN) that provides optimum resource allocation of the system,
easy upgrade of resources and functions, transparent multipoint
access to output data streams on the part of end users.
The POISK system kernel is formed by up to 8 sections of
preliminary processing and distribution of data flows (SPDS),
Each SPDS section is responsible for reception, preliminary processing and routing of data flows to LAN_ Each SPDS section
can process up to 10 satellite channels (input data flows), form
output streams of data, perform their preliminary processing and
routing them to 100 M i ff s LAN segment_
The system provides effective maintaining of operating
temperature inside its industrial case and early diagnostics of a
voltage failure, control of UPS resources and correct closing of
the operating system at reduction of these resources before
critical values,

tobomd• L b a n d

System
"Poisk"
LAN

Proreessin0 system

gagoomomm0=7111111017mmommer
rmonstion

roisibkcolirigurktiontla. POISy Svstem 0E15E1111in Dri the Cationic r R o o t h - m u t it
2
3 4
5
6
1
f l
[ Typt (iron:kr
-10 1 1 • 2 0 2130 1 1
41•50 51•150 161-70 7 1 I Number
c h a nofn e l s
•
1
8
2
3
4
5
5
r Nurniburso f sPns scetkmi
Narther of LIPS-71:10BA
2
2
2
1110S-143011A
Numberof LAN-swrrca
I
[
,
2.7
31
36
_IS
us

1

1

c o m r s t E H E N u r v c E I D L U T I O N F O R I N T E R C E P T I O N A N D
11 M N I T D R I N G I 4 T E L E C O M M U N I C A T I O N N I E T W O R K E

C RY P T O N - M L t d .
Tel.+38D444667083, Fax *3E0442514131 e-Mail B r a .

/
, -11101s
I 111

C
R
Y
P
T
O
N
M
-

/ • -----

.

NIft,

Inmarsor Monitoring
Systa

COMPREHICNSIVE soLuTiorsi FOR INTERCEPTION AND
M O N I T U R I N G I N T E L C C O N I N I U N I AT I O N NETWCIRKEI

C RY P TO N - M L t d .
Te l . * 3 8 0

C
R
Y
P
T
O
N
-M
The system is designed to extract and process voice, fax,
modem sessions and Sort Message Service (SMS) from GSM
Networks.
System Architecture and Block Diagram
Monitoring of GSM networks is based on processing E l
trunks between BSC and MSC.
GSM Monitoring System is territorially distributed: the part of
the system responsible for reception and processing of El trunks
Is located in proximity to MSC and the part of the system responsible for processing sessions is located at the Monitoring Center.
Both parts of the systems are connected via LAN over WAN channels. The system consists ot the following subsystems:
• El Trunks Processing Subsystem (iodated at the MSC):
• Session Processing Subsystem (located at the Monitoring
Center);
• Management Subsystem (located a t the Monitoring
Center).
The system may include several E l Trunks Processing
Subsystems located at various MSCs.

Subsystems Architecture and Function
El Trunks Processing Subsystem consists of the following:
• El Trunks Reception and Processing Station:
• A-interface Processing Server;
• El Trunks Cross Connect;
• Networking Equipment.
The input of the El Trunks Processing Subsystem consists
of duplex E l trunks (ITU-T G.703) with A-interface communications to carry traffic between BSC and MSC.
The output of the subsystem is generated as a result of El
trunks processing in the following forms:
• voice sessions recorded on disks in WAV formal;
fax sessions recorded on disks in TIFF format;
• modem sessions or texts recorded on disks;
• Short Message Service (SMSI texts recorded on disks.
Session Processing Subsystem consists of the following:
• Database Server;
• File Server;
• Archive Server:
• Operator Workstations;
• Target Location Station;
• Networking Equipment.
' Database Server Is designed to store session-related infix' mation about all sessions, received and processed by the monitoring system.

File Server is designed to receive and temporarily store files
of sessions recorded by E l Trunks Reception and Processing
Station and retrieved by Database Server for Operators In accordance with their workpans.
Archive Server is designed for long-term storage of session
files, processed by Operators.
Operator Workstations are designed to:
• access Database Server to retrieve information:
• playback WAV-files of voice sessions;
• display and view fax images:
• display modem, data and SMS texts.
Target Location Station is designed to visualize target location while the session is in progress. Target location can be determined as accurate as a cells sector.
Management Subsystem consists of the following;
• System Administrator Workstation;
• System Engineer Workstation.
Management Subsystem functions:
• monitor functionality of system components
• perform fault monitoring and signaling, fault location and
handling;
• create workplans for Operators, prepare to distribute workplans to Operator Workstations;
• generate reports about system performance,
Technical Specifications
• The system can process communications traffic with priority screening to the following types of SeSsiOnS: voice. (telephone),
fax, modem data, Short Message Service. The system operator
can filter sessions by any typo of data transmitted over A-Interface,
e.g. telephone number (MS ISDN), IMSI, IMEI, Cell ID, date, time,
session duration, etc. All data received by the system can be
processed by operators. The system supports 256 levels of priority,
• The input capacity of the system - up to 128 two-way El
trunks,
• The system can simultaneously record, process and store
for predetermined time all sessions from all input trunks.
• The system provides compression of input trunks In 5:1
ratio with subsequent playback possibility using standard sound
card and proprietary as well as standard software.
• The system can process Group 3 fax sessions with MH,
MR, ECM, MMA coding schemes and all functions of lax communications in accordance with ITLI-T 130, TA, 1 6 recommendsbons. All fax images are converted into standard graphic TIFF formatand can be viewed by proprietary and standard software.
• The system can process modem data utilizing ITLI-T V.42
and V.42b1s protocols and MNP2 through 4, MNP5 protocols
developed by Micr000m.
• The system supports remote users with abridged version of
the sesSion processing subsystem; such remote users perform
local tasks a n d establish communications w i t h t h e m a i n
Monitoring Center. • ,
! To minimize the size of El Trunks Processing Subsystem
another version of the system can be made available - for processing trunks with A-ter interface.
• The system can be fitted wiih additional hardware and software to meet certain operational requirements.

C O M P R E N E N E I LV E E L U T I O N F O P I N T K P O E P T I O N A N D
MONITORINUIN T L I - C D M M U N I C AT I D N NLTWORKU

C RY P I O N - M L t d .
Tel A300444667083, Fax +380442514133, s p e v O u l c p a c K n o /

