Universal Legal Interception System

E
cu

~

"'

~

"'c0

·-c.
~

cu
cu
c

u
a.
~

-cu
RI

~

...I

RI
a.

The TerraLIS Legal Interception System is intended for interception and procession of communication sessions from t elephon y and data t ran smission sub -n et works b y authorized law enforcement agencies. It provides the possibility of interception both from traditional chann el switched t elephone networks and new
generation multi-service networks (NGN).
Terrall$ provides:
• Connection to network elements of service provider via SORM, ETSI, CALEA interfaces
or via internal interfaces, provided by the communication switch itself (X-interface).
Functional features of Terra LIS system:
· Connection to the fo llowing types of network equipment: PSTN, GSM, CDMA, NGN,
GGSN, SGSN, PDSN;
• Interception of incoming and outgoing calls (internal, local, in-zone, long-distance
and international) to/from certain subscribers of the given switch, being monitored;
· Interception of outgoing call from all the subscribers of given switch to p re-defined
numbers in the telephony network;
· Interception of facts of setting up or changinh by the subscriber being monitored of
the additional services, changing the direction of the calls (call forwarding, conference calls, etc.) or numbering information (fast dialing, direct calling, etc.).
· Long-term storage of all the intercepted information;
· Detection of subscriber's location w ith indication on the map;
•Gathering of the statistic~ about ~ystem events;
• Indication of information In convenient form;
• Possibility of monitoring of subscribers by different identities.

........................................................................

"'cu

>
c

·-::::>

AdmlnJstrabOn

Slo

DO-

4J
Admon.slartO<

Meolalion

Switch

Prooossion

Device

Site

<©
<©
4J

Supervisor

Switch

__....._

._
Switch

Mediation
Device

X t Xl.XJ

rex

Mediation
Device

OCR
Kov-d
ProottltnQ Servert

Opetator

Operator

Universal Legal Interception System
Brief description ofTerraLIS system key elements.

· Mediation Device (MD) is intended for interaction with switching equipmentof service provider for implementation of monitoring features. MD can be connected to switching equipment via various interfaces - SORM, ETSI,
CA LEA. internal interfaces of equipment vendor.
• Database Server is intended for storage of information about the registered communication sessions.
• Archive server is intended for long -term ~tOri'l!)P of information about communication sessions. stored to the
archive.
· Query Procession Server is intended for separation of access from processing sites to procession subsystems.
• Data Conversion Server is intended for conversion of fax and modem messages into the form, viewable by operators.
•Data Processing Server is intended for procession and storage of information from data transmission sub-networks (GPRS, PDSN, IP-traffic).
• Optical Recognition Station is intended for text recognition from intercepted fax pages and information storage
to text files.
•Keyword Search Station is intended for automated search of set keyword s through the recognized fax and modem messages.
• System Administrator Workstation is intended for control of Operator's activities, formi ng of target selection
table, allocation of tasks to Operators, etc.
• Control Server is intended for technological control of elements of the system .
• Administrator on Duty Workstation is intended for control of Operator's activities, allocation of tasks to Operators, distribution of load between Operators (within the margins, defined by System Administrator).
• Operator Workstation is intended for procession of intercepted communicat ion sessions and creation of reports
about their contents.

