CTE International sri Business units and capabilities
CTE International is an all ltalian company, engaged in the development, design and
delivery of radio communication solutions for over 35 years on an International scale
with three major product offers: Consumer, Radio and Microline.

Microline Surveillance Business Unit
Thanks to its outstanding reputation as designer of radio communication solutions,
was involved by the ltalian MOI and MOD in specific intelligence projects for the
consultancy, design, implementation and execution of a series of high tech monitoring
systems, leading Io the birth of Microline Business Unit.
Microline systems are now used by Police forces, Law enforcement, intelligence and
military agencies around the world.

Microline.
Bridging the technological gap with all in one tech
Many microline solutions let the agency install just one technological device to achieve
many technological tasks: tracking-tagging- locating-listening -recordign a target.
Microline BU is entirely dedicated to the provision of innovative intelligence solutions,
based on real and concrete scenario where particular care is given to the reduction
of installation risks.

The Microline comprehensive range
Microline surveillance provides a comprehensive range of electronic monitoring
products & service to Law enforcement, National Intelligence Agencies, Custom
authorities, Police Forces. Such range includes:
Audio, Video, Localization and tracking, Analysis and Integrated intelligence-gathering
solutions.

Microline International support and after sales assistance
Microline counts on an international net of partners and distributors trained to offer
technical support and assistance. The help-desk service active 24h a day and 7
days a week, offers not only applicative but also deploying consultancy supplied by
professionals fully acquainted with every day critical missions.

Training classes
Dedicated training provided in-house or at the customer premises is part of the
services which are held by our application experts and are offered throughout the
year, upon request. The classes are both theoretical and practical and in-clude live
demos and exercises.

The Microline focus. Ease of use, flexibility and timeliness

The best up-to-date

The Microline Business Unit is in constant re-search for innovative technology and
services capable of assuring flexibility and timeliness as well as ease of use: key
factors in critical opera-live conditions to the Police Forces.

technologies for Audio
monitoring, Live
Tracking and fast Data

Customization an intrinsic aspect of our proposais
We underline the importance of the customization, since we believe that in order
to be able to operate effectively in this field , it is necessary to tailor technology and
tools for innovative and made-to-measure solutions for the evolving world of legal
investigations.

lnvolvement in real operations
ln ltaly CTE employs a team of 20 persons direct-ly installing and setting up
monitoring systems for lawful investigations in target locations under the protection
of Police Forces . Thanks to this specialized activity we are constantly aware of every
day operational needs, conditions and obstacles which can be overcome by specific
technological solutions.

Streaming inside thin
and compact units
Possible project lines
Given the complex nature of the questions involved in law enforcement and the
gravity of the same, the project lines we are able to propose must necessarily
imply cooperation with State Security Services, able to compile strategic reports,
assessment of the threats and analysis of crimes or precise operative needs that will
allow us to propose the best solution.We do not only design but also develop and
manufacture intelligence solutions

Covert Audio and
video monitoring
Acquisition
of
conversations
and video shots inside hostile
environments close to targets and
suspects, offices, private houses,
vehicles, frequently visited places,
thanks to the use of catching devices
designed by us and distinguished
by a series of qualities that are vital
for the scenario:
• extremely miniaturized and therefore easily concealable;
• suitable for lengthy operations {reduced power consumption);
• resistant Io shocks , vibrations, water or humidity infiltrations and therefore operative
on the field for years;
• sale !rom detection thanks Io the encrypted transmission ;
• high speed remote data transfer thanks to the use of most advanced transmission
technologies diversified according Io the location and the distances Io be covered
or the level of isolation of the relative area.

Tracking, locating, Tagging and audio surveillance solutions
Tens of ultra miniature reliable solutions designed Io follow a person, an asse! or vehicles for months without interruptions in the service.

The
tracking
technology
is
matched with the data transmission
technology most suited Io the
territory and Io the operation :
• CDMA, Wi-Fi, WiMAx, ZigBee,
Bluetooth
tracking
and
control
• The
systems are available in different
close
configurations
for
unsuspicious
tailing
(PDA
phones or NETbook), Control and
Command centre.
• Fully independent (with dynamic
IP address) , they can be installed
on NETbook, Laptop, Servers and
are equipped with personalized
cartographies .
• The target can be seen on the
Multiple
Raster
cartography,
satellites,
previous
photos
acquired during the preparation
of the mission and paired with a
specific area.
• The beacons and tailing devices achieve a high level of
miniaturization with elongated shape and ultra thin Io be difficult
Io detect and easily hidden inside cartons, shoes or other
objects and with battery life of up to one year.

The Microline solutions developed in this line are marked by a great flexibility and
qualities which are vital for the scenario :

Credits

• Live tracking of one or more vehicles or targeted persons al the same lime and
over great distances with centralized or independent control centre automatically
acquiring and correlating large quantityof meaningful investigative data,(position,
time, field tracked , alarms, speed and audio on request) minimizing the post
processing actions.

Year alter year the effectiveness of the solutions we propose has been positively
assessed by the Police and Intelligence Forces which involve us in a continuously
growing number of projects and activities with an ever increasing level of complexity.
Such credits are non-disclosed in order to grant the level of privacy related to the
specific projects and are available for tendering information.

@:
, Cte international
Microline is a brand owned by: CTE INTERNATIONAL sri -Via R. Sevardi, 7&8-42124 Reggio Emilia, ltaly-Tel +39 0522 509411 Fax +39 0522 509448 - e-mail: info.microline@cte.it

