PRESS RELEASE

Ii •:•.. _

f , •••• ••

::~~~~:: AGT INTERNATIONAL

AGT International Showcases New Urban Management Solutions
at Milipol
Global Leader Enables City Managers to Enhance Public Safety
and Security
[PARIS] [October 18, 2011]
AGT International one of the fastest growing public safety and security solutions organizations
in the world , today unveiled a number of new Urban Management Solutions at the Milipol Exhibition
in Paris. Solutions on show include innovative offerings in the areas of urban management,
including emergency response, crime centers, mega events, safe city and transportation .
"We live in an era of rapid urbanization that presents city managers with new threats to public
safety and well-being," said Mati Kochavi , Founder & Chief Executive Officer of AGT International.
AGT lntemational's solutions provide municipal and national decision-makers with actionable
information, rendering one of the most complex modern environments - the 21st century city manageable and secure. The solutions utilize data from mobile and stationary sensors, social
networks, and existing urban databases, to generate a Unified Situation Awareness Picture (USAP)
that provides intuitive status visualizations, triggers alerts, recommends actions, and delivers
predictive and forecasting capabilities.
"Our urban management solutions enable city managers and other stakeholders to predict, prevent,
prepare, and manage the rapidly evolving threats and challenges facing cities," said Paul Hucq ,
President of Sales and Business Development at AGT International. "With offices established in the
Netherlands, the UK, Switzerland and Germany, our solutions and operations are gaining tremendous
momentum throughout Europe. Along with offices in Brazil and Asia, where we have established
offices in Singapore and India and have pilot schemes underway in China, our solutions will continue
to help communities across the globe ."
"AGT lnternational's unique algorithms link traditional data sources with next generation sensors,
allowing individuals to provide a real time community service," said Professor Lutz Heuser, Chief
Technology Officer of AGT International. "In doing so, we enable willing citizens to use their smart
phones for additional environmental and health services. This shared data, collected from these
citizen's via their personal mobile sensors, including local environmental and health data, can be
measured and analyzed. The data then gives citizens an individual and local information service
in real-time."
For more information about AGT International and its Urban Management solutions,
visit www.aqtintemational.com

About AGT lntemational
One of the fastest-growing public safety and security solutions organizations in the world,
AGT International has operations across the globe. Led by a unique vision, AGT International offers innovative solutions in the areas of critical infrastructure and border protection,
urban management, cyber security, transportation, Jaw enforcement, and natural disaster
preparedness, helping unlock the world's potential by enabling the free flow of goods, services, people, and ideas. Headquartered in Zurich, Switzerland, AGT International employs
2.000 people worldwide, representing more than 30 nationalities. The organization was
founded in 2007, and is managing $8 billion in projects. AGT International is led by Founder
and CEO, Mati Kochavi, who is also Chairman of 3i-MIND.

Rennweg38
Zurich, Switzerland
+41 44 828 49 97
www.a9tinternational.com

Media Contacts
Fr ance
Sarah Fornier
T +31 1 44 69 30 38
M +31 6 99 37 61 76
Global
David Hart
T +41 44 828 48 32
M +41 79 288 34 65

