DesignByChip — Digital RF

DesignByChip® Ltd
Unit 1,06
Northside Studios
16-29 Andrews Road
London
E8 4QF
Tel: + 4 4 (0) 207 249 0111
E-mail: bobbyddesignbychip.com
Website: wwwdesignbychip.com
Contact: Bobby Sohal
Position: Director

designby

Nature of Business:
DesignByChip researches, designs, manufactures and supplies
innovative criminal surveillanee equipment to international law
enforcement and government agencies. Using GSM and GPS,
DesignByChip develops audio listening devices, tracking hardware
and can custom-build a range of surveillance solutions and
interface software to tackle the,fight against crime.

Detica Ltd
The Surrey Research Park
Guildford
Surrey GU2 7YP
Tel: + 4 4 (0) 1483 442000
Fax: + 4 4 (0) 1483 442144
E-mail: john.shaw©detica.com
Website: wwwdetica.com
Contact: Mn j Shaw
Position: Head of Law and Order

Nature of Business:
Detica is a specialist IT consultancy that helps organisations
overcome large-scale information management challenges.
With a heritage in the national security market, we work forbroad range of major corporations and government departm
We provide consulting advice and implement solutions which
enable our clients to become more competitive and effectiveintelligently exploiting their information.

Deutsch Ltd
Products
In addition to the company's product portfolio, DesignByChip
develops custom-built criminal surveillance equipment and
software that is developed for specific covert operations, including:
• GSM & GPS tracking and surveillance technology
• Remote GSM audio listening devices
• Remote CPS tracking hardware
• Electronic solutions
• Interface software
• Hardware integration into clothes, bags and electronic goods
AudioSPY
The AudioSPY is a miniature, self-powered GSM/notification and
control device that can be used on any GSM network...
anywhere. Working on three frequencies: GSM 900 MHz: GSM
1800 MHz and GSM 1900 MHz, AudioSPY enables remote audio
surveillance of any location. Once deployed, conversations can be
monitored using a cell phone or landline telephone negating the
need to remain geographically close to the source.
Microtrack
Microtrack is a miniature, battery-powered, rapid deployment
positional and audio gathering surveillance tool. Using the latest
innovations in GPS global positioning and GSM communications, it
is a cutting edge tracking/GPS logging system. A market leader,
Microtrack gives users a competitive edge by allowing them to
track dynamic targets in covert and high-profile operations.

Every surveillance operation is different and we build our kit to
reflect this. Our dedicated R&D team enables us to develop
custom-built surveillance devices and software that really get the
job done. Using GSM and GPS technology, DesignbyChip has the
innovative and technological expertise to develop products to fit
any surveillance scenario, from advanced remote audio surveillance,
to criminal positioning systems. Tell us and we'll develop it.
DesignByChipo Ltd Is a member ofAPPSS-

86

Castleham Industrial Estate
Stanier Road
St Leonards on Sea
East Sussex TN38 9RF
Tel: + 4 4 (0) 1424 852721
Fax: + 4 4 (0) 1424 851532
E-mail: deutsch©deutsch.co.uk
Website: wwwdeutschltdcom
Contact: M r A Small
Nature of Business:
A range of high and medium-density military connectors,
connector accessories, miniature relays, underwater conne
fibre-optic connectors and sub-systems and cable hamessin
i t s member of APPSS.

Digital RF Ltd
Walford House
Generals Lane
Boreham
Chelmsford
Essex CM3 3HW
Tel: + 4 4 (0) 1245 467786
Fax + 4 4 (0) I 245 468716
E-mail: digitalrfabtconnect.com
Contact: M r J Rogers
Position: Managing Director
Nature of Business:
Digital RE offers counter terrorist and radio surveillance s
bespoke to a client's need. The company's services include
manufacture, distribution, installation, test, training and fiel
support. Digital RF's products include a range of 1-6 can
25-3000MHz radio jaomers which are designed to preve
detonation of roadside explosions or to create radio bla
cells.The company also offers COMM radio camera su
links for mobile land, sea and air applications, RF repeate
extension of COMM broadcast or LOS links, IP micro
links with PIZ control, portable/deployable satellite ea
and microwave systems.

