

Discussion are underway concerning putting fiber optics
into such aircraft as the Navy's ?4er and its yet-to-lx-?rurnsd
replacement. Officials in the Navy?s new P-tl patrol aircraft
program are considering flber optics for the mission systems.
The Army's difficulties in fielding an Airborne Common Sen-
sor for signals and imagery intelliraarce was triggered by a
requirement for too much equipment without sufficient power
and cooling. Fiber optics are viewed as part of the solution

.0-0: [rem -

9A or

 

 

to outfitting smaller intelligencegathering aircraft with the
needed sensors.

They also are expected to be in most pmgxisals fora large
National Cyber Range. The [left-rise Advanced Research Proj-
ects Agency is looking at remote sites in China Lake. (?alif..
Holloman AFB. N.M.. and perhaps Texas There also is a large
inVestrnent in fiber at the National Security Agency at Ft.
Gordon, (la. 0

. 
. - 
- 

mmwmuiap- 
Wm? I 
?3|th . 

"What-epochs. 

 

.
q/

I.




Networks

In: ?rle



 



Electronic Blitz

AVIATION WEEK

SPACE TECHNOLOGY

Intelligence ops are poised to gather, move and
analyze more information than ever before

DAVID A. 

ntelligence agencies and military cyber-commands are at

the tipping point in their switch from surveillance at the

speed of electricity to combat at the speed of light. and
parsing messages sent via fiber optics is a key
to this transformation.

Agencies and national [alumina-nits have an acute interest
in monitoring fiber-optic communications. which are growing
at the rate of about 20% per year. intelligence o?icials say.
But taming those nearly srmed-of-light messages into electric
signals. sorting them and then re-eomerting them to light. has
a time and cost imrmmibility.

The demand to yet more communications for illegal or po-
tentially deadly rnessam-s remains insatiable. hoWew-r. So the
premun- is on to find new science to meet cytx-r-intelligence
needs.

?As optical and cloud computing are introduced. all of a
sudden there is a new [?exibility to] where processing can be
done." says IA. lien. William Lord. the U38. Air Force's chief
information ?It changes the way you go after a prob-
lem. certainly. I don't see the way people look for. move and
dLW?t'l the information changing for a long while. Ilut we will
have to do it faster.

?What that [desire for additional speed] driVes is the need
to do [more intelligence analysis and cyber forensics] in the
same place even if the people involved are from different orga-
nizations." Lord says ?All ofa sudden. it's not so much about
organization as it is about where [experts and spe-
cialistsl come together. . . . Maybe it's even virtual teams that
are tied together with social network sites.?

So a major breakthrough in tapping into messages sent via
high-volume fiber optics will be discmering how to use optics
to manage light. One company Elimmerglares beIieVes it
has an amwrer to some of t'yhentpace's acceleration problems.

Company researchers use three-dina-mional micrrH-Ieetm-

mechanical systems technology, patented algo-
rithm controls and tiny mirrors?that relay hundreds of light
streams?to sort and distribute light-borne communication
signals.

A small. 3 :lin. switching engine. for example. man-
ages optical signal path-t between [92 inputloutput. high-den-
sity optical fibers. eliminating the need for about [90 electrical
conversions. The signals are monitored by photo detectors as
they come into the switch. These, in turn, are directed onto a
array embedded with hundreds of I-mm.-wide mi-
cm-mirmm

?This very exotic lens array can be foctured so each beam is
pointed toward a different mirror." says (llimmerglass l?resi-
dent/(ZEO Robert handy. ?'l'hc MHMS micro-mirror array is
[etched into] silicon. l'lach mirror is erwered in a
gold (werlay, is deep-Well etched. frit'titmit-scs and floats on four
3-micron metallic springs. Mirrors can be armed as much as
4.6 deg. to point at a bounce mirror that can direct its beam to
any other mirror on the same array. In addition. they can all
?talk? to each other.?

There are also requirements to capture ultra-low levels of
light pulled from optical signals.

?For example. we have been selling to one of the major
[aemspaee industry] integrators for four years.? Lundy re-
?3813.? It started during meetings with one of the interrurtional
agencies. They asked us how to manage light [a tiny
rxmn' measurement]. That's like a photon per fortnight?an
almost impossible perception of an optical signal. It is some
of the original signal. We showed that the could
monitor. connect and switch it. Most oflourl l7 patents are
aswx'iated with the array design. the design and the
control system." handy says.

The device pass-es incoming beams through an array of
optical lenses that focus them onto a corresponding array of

March 29/Apn'l 5. 2010

 



?773"?

2l0 I-mm.-wide articulating mirmrs. The mirrors. managed
remotely through software. then bounce the health to selected
output fibers to be distributed to pram-swing locations and
Signals also can be optically split into multiple per-
fect copies and each copy to a separate output for
men wider distribution.

'arying the Voltage of three probes under-
neath each mirror produces the proper tilt. The ceramic
substrate. lens array and housing are thermally matched to
reduce stress during temperature variations.

?'l?hc magic is in keeping the temperature stable and the
mean time beth-n failures high." Lundy says. ?Right now.
it?s about l6 years"

A feedback loop starts from the device's output. The optical
signal goes through a photo-detm-tor that keeps track of the
power level, which is monitored by software. The mirrors are
dynamic always in motion- - so the control system compen-
sates for the resulting thermal changes or shock.

'We are just now starting to look on the other side of the
[intelligence] veil to lind out what they really need.? Lundy
says. We're the optical signal managenk-nt system that allow
the agencies to create, monitor and reconfigure light paths
very dynamically.?

are expressing relief at having equipment that
eliminates a lot of manual activity.

 

?So if the equipment was located in a little room halfway
around the world.? says Keith May. director
of buainess development. ?they would text a guy, ask him to
move cable A into slot Ii. 'I'hat's how they did basins-set before.
Now they can sit [in a location near Washington] and click
once for an input and once again for an outimt [to dL-eu-mirmtel
material to anywhere.?

Ilut the new reality is a volume of message traffic that con-
founds the imagination. In fact. the latest ondent
are contingent on providing a capability to look remotely at
hundreds of l( 'zlttons and monitor them.

Fits-r-optic landing stations. perhaps several. are on the
coasts of major wruntries. Fiber-optic cables enlm? out of the
Atlantic in New Jersey. the Baltic in Stockholm or via the Suez
Canal into t?aim. In terms of communicatirms, libcr optics are
sWecping the globe. About 95% of the world's international
tmllic is carried by liber optics. and most of
that goes under the sea.

?We believe our HMS tu'hnology as used by gov-
ernments and various agencies - ~is iriVolved in the collection
of intelligence from sensors, satellites and undersea fiber
systems." May says. - are deployed in several countries
that are using it for lawful interception. They've passed laws.
publicly known. that they will monitor all international traf-
fic for interdiction of any kind of terrorist activity. With that

 

 

  

I Distribute Rf signals over fiber

"w tiMonltm signals recon?gure paths

Compact
low~pov~cr

they need to select the they want to look at, deo
multiplex the signals and then send them places
for pnx'ess'ing and monitoring.?

The big problem is how to rapidly monitor all the commu-
nications moving on light signals. There are millions of miles
of undersea cable. I'Zach cable typi 'ally contains 4-8 fibers and
each fiber carries 40-bit) separate
light wave signals each handling
10-40 giguhits of trafllc.

ltut there are a few shortcuts to
selecting from the nutssiVe inflow;
looking for signals on the light
source is one?no signals, no wor-
ries. If the fiber is dark. there are no
data traveling You can also play the
[nu-mentions

?If I have a line mining from Ye-
men. I'm always going to be monitoring that." May says ?But
Sweden?not so much. Then it comes down to prou'ssing."
'l'here. another set of n-?primrru-nL-t kicks of trans-
mission. low transmission signal loss, small equipment size
and low power net-(Ls.

?The prolifemtion of optical signals in the tactical and stra-
tegic arenas is a given." Lundy says. "lt's happening. There is
more liberjmit because of the capacity. So any place there is




"The magic is in
keeping the
temperature stable

and mean time between
failures high. Now it?s
about 16 years."

 

a layer of optical signals moving around?wh-
we call larger fabrics they can be remotely 
?gured and nslirected. lfyou are in the intel
and want to extract those signals and send
electronics box that extracts the real content
can do that dyrunnically with [this type of sy

()ptical has a lo
'ause it is noise ir
vulnerable to int
big electrical rel
of electricity. 'l'h
an era that is scci
ment of anti-elect
Moreover. the llbe
less vulnerabtc to 1
than copper. say in
Anything that Wot
would probably destroy copper.

Also; there is great potenual for developmt

"As we understand, air- and seaborne pla'
ture will have a lot of single-mode fiber." Lur
will be a nctWork on the platform that can
Hours of information optically. ()ptical mana
on the platform will help select the trallic I
onto narrower radio linkssignals I



