Digital •

Net Protect
The Digital RF Network Guard tells the user
quickly if anyone is trying to Intercept, Jam
information from your mobile phone.
Net Protect is a unique network
monitoring system which analyses each
network looking for any signs of irregular
activity related to jamming of mobiles
phones.
As soon as irregularities are identified alarms
are presented to the user that the phone is
not secure and being jammed.

Key features:
- Small and compact in size
- Simple GUI network status display
- Monitors all mobile networks simultaneously
- Low power consumption
- Detection options for:
GSM Jamming
CDMA Jamming
GRPS Jamming
- International operation

Digital RF Ltd
Walford House
Generals Lane
Boreham, Chelmsford

Tel +44 (0)1245 451601
Fax:+44 (0)1245 468716
Email : Sales@DigitalRF.net
www.DigitalRF.net

Essex CM3 3HW
Digital RF maintains a policy of improvement and reserves the right to modify the specification without prior notice.

During the last decade there has been a communications revolution with mobile
telephones playing a progressively more important part. Almost everyone in the
developed world has a mobile phone. Important communications are conducted via
voice, text and data by mobile phone users in all walks of life.
Regrettably not everyone is aware of the vulnerability of mobile communications
and use their mobile phones unaware that there are those who seek to benefit in a
wide variety of ways by gaining unlawful access or jamming of mobile phones.
Mobile phones are vulnerable because voice calls, SMS messages, data
transmissions and all of the personal or professional information they may hold can
be easily intercepted.
The equipment required to carry out mobile phone interception or "hacking", is of
relatively high capital value and the gains to be made through its usage would have
to be worthwhile to those deploying it. However, in many cases the gains are often
worth the expense and effort.

It is essential to be able to detect and defend against mobile communications
jamming devices and for this reason Digital RF develops and markets mobile phone
security and anti-hacking systems.
"Net Protect" provides absolute protection against mobile phone attack by
monitoring the surrounding mobile networks looking for the tell-tale signs that a
hacking or jamming activity has occurred in the past or is in progress.
Modern Mobile phone Interception and hacking equipment is extremely
sophisticated and attempts to conceal itself among the clutter of Mobile Signals
and traffic in the surrounding area.
"Net Protect" has been programmed following years of experience in the
industry to detect the finger print of even the most complex systems.
"Net Protect" is easily deployed, is unobtrusive and can be set to operate
quietly, unattended, until interception or hacking is detected when a choice of
audible, visual, text or email alarms can be sent.
Digital RF also provide a hand held location device enabling security staff to
identify the source of the threat quickly and efficiently.

Digital RF Ltd
Walford House
Generals Lane
Boreham, Chelmsford

Tel +44 1011245 451601
Fax:+44 (0)1245 468716
Email: Sales@DiqitalRF.net
www.Digital RF. net

Essex CM3 3HW
Digital RF maintains a policy of improvement and reserves the right to modify the specification without prior notice.

