AirMagnet Laptop Analyzer
AN AIRMAGNET MOBILITY SOLUTION

AirMagnet Laptop Analyzer is the industry’s most valuable and
complete solution for managing enterprise Wi-Fi networks. At
the heart of the Laptop Analyzer is the AirWISE® engine, which

WIRELESS LAN ANALYSIS
AND TROUBLESHOOTING
Complete 802.11a/b/g/n monitoring

automatically detects the root-cause of dozens of security and
performance problems, explains alarms in plain English, and

Wi-Fi Packet Analysis

offers recommendations on how to solve or manage complex
issues. Laptop Analyzer provides instant visibility into all
wireless channels, devices, conversations, speeds, interference

AirWISE ® GUI with Expert Advice

Superior Security Threat Detection

issues and the RF spectrum, making it the ideal product for
pre-deployment and post-deployment of Wi-Fi Networks. The

Superior Performance Monitoring

Analyzer also diagnoses Wi-Fi interference arising from WiFi
and non-WiFi sources leading to reduced performance. As

Active Troubleshooting Tools

always, AirMagnet delivers a solution that is user-friendly to IT
Complete Wi-Fi Interference Analysis

professionals, network managers, security and compliance
officers, and wireless LAN experts.

Compliance Auditing and Reporting

Multiple Platform Support

AirMagnet Laptop Analyzer
AN AIRMAGNET MOBILITY SOLUTION

The AirMagnet Laptop Analyzer software monitors all
802.11a, 11b, 11g, 11n and 4.9 GHz US Public Safety
(requires Laptop Analyzer PRO and an AirMagnet supported
4.9GHz wireless adapter) channels for complete visibility of
the entire Wi-Fi domain.
AirMagnet is compatible with a variety of internal and external
wireless adapters. Please visit the AirMagnet website for a
complete list of supported adapters and their capabilities. With
the Intel PRO/Wireless 3945 wireless adapter, users can
monitor the Wi-Fi environment and be connected to the
network at the same time.
AirMagnet Laptop Analyzer can be installed on a variety of
platforms including Windows-based Laptops, Tablet PCs,
Apple® MacBook® Pro and Ultra Mobile PCs.

AirWISE: Built-In Wireless Exper tise
At the heart of the Laptop Analyzer is the AirWISE® engine, which automatically detects
the root-cause of dozens of Wi-Fi issues across 802.11a, 11b, 11g, 11n and 4.9 GHz US
Public Safety channels. AirWISE® eliminates the need for users to manually interpret
complex packet decodes and wireless data by taking the proactive role of identifying and
explaining more than hundreds ot threats and performance issues before they impact
the network. The user-friendly AirWISE® interface explains alarms in straightforward
details, provides access to additional diagnostic data, and offers advice on corrective
actions.

Alerts You of Rogue Devices and Intrusions
AirMagnet’s Laptop Analyzer automatically detects and alerts you of dozens of wireless intrusions, penetration attempts and
hacking strategies including Rogue Devices, Denial of Service attacks, Dictionary Attacks, Faked APs, RF Jamming, and
many more. This includes the ability to detect and identify the use of various “stumbler” tools which may indicate an
unauthorized user attempting to snoop on your network.

Alerts You of Network Performance Issues
Even the most secure network will fail to meet its objectives if it does not reliably meet the demands of network users.
Furthermore, certain performance issues can escalate and open up the network to unknown risks. For this reason,
AirMagnet has developed over 40 alerts to identify an entire range of performance issues including traffic patterns,
bandwidth utilization and infrastructure or hardware failures or resets. Like all AirMagnet alerts, each comes with a detailed
description of the problem, symptoms and causes, access to additional diagnostic data, advice on corrective action, and
device tracking.

Detects Subtle Network Weaknesses
AirMagnet performs a continuous vulnerability assessment of the network to detect subtle weaknesses that are often
overlooked, such as devices sending unencrypted data, tracking LEAP vulnerabilities, detecting pre-802.11n devices,
identifying unconfigured clients automatically scanning for APs and a host of potentially damaging security configurations.
These proactive measures enable IT to take corrective action before a problem ever occurs.

Locks Down Security Policies
In a wireless LAN, if even one AP or station fails to run the appropriate security measures, the entire network is put at risk.
Furthermore, several different security strategies may be needed in order to secure the entire enterprise. AirMagnet allows IT
to pick the ideal security measures for your WLANs and then monitor for 100% compliance.

8 0 2 . 1 1 n M o n i t o r i n g & Tr o u b l e s h o o t i n g
Laptop Analyzer identifies and classifies all 802.11n capable devices in the network
(including differentiating between standards-compliant and pre-standard 802.11n
devices). It supports monitoring for the 20 MHz and 40 MHz channels and classifies
higher data rates used by the 802.11n devices. Using the Laptop Analyzer, users can
also classify and decode Non-HT (legacy), HT mixed format and HT greenfield format
traffic and identify backward compatibility issues with legacy 802.11a/b/g devices
operating in the same environment. The Analyzer helps users physically locate
802.11n rogue devices operating in the environment (which are often invisible to
non-802.11n analyzers) and decodes new information elements and wireless frame
types.

Flexible Settings & Infrastructure Monitoring
“Results-oriented” User Interface
AirMagnet Laptop Analyzer’s “results-oriented” User Interface adapts in ways desired
by the users. Users can filter and choose to only view information on the different
screens based on channels, device type, SSID and alarm severity or take advantage
of the advanced sorting capability to view the information.

Infrastructure Vendor monitoring
Infrastructure vendors provide multiple BSSIDs (MAC addresses) for a single AP to
support multiple security configurations/applications on a single physical AP.
AirMagnet Laptop Analyzer includes manual and automatic AP grouping capabilities
to view such APs and recognize all the BSSIDs belonging to it. AirMagnet includes
pre-defined grouping for the Cisco and Aruba Infrastructure.

Complete Wi-Fi Interference detection & analysis
Wi-Fi Interference occurs due to co-channel/adjacent channel interference from the
corporate or neighbor’s WLAN, hidden nodes in the environment or sources outside
of the 802.11 band. AirMagnet’s Interference status indicator lists the overall
interference status for each Wi-Fi channel, calculated based on the Wi-Fi interference
score for the devices contributing to the interference; a list of hidden nodes and non
Wi-Fi devices (non Wi-Fi detection requires Laptop Analyzer PRO and AirMagnet
Spectrum Analyzer) operating in the channel. This enables AirMagnet users to plan
future Wi-Fi deployments or modify their existing to increase network performance.

Packet Decode Page
AirMagnet Laptop Analyzer also includes a real-time decode page for detailed network
analysis. AirMagnet decodes the most popular protocols such as FTP, HTTP, SMTP,
POP, and Telnet. Advanced filtering options allow you to focus on particular
conversations based on IP address or port number.

A c t i v e Tr o u b l e s h o o t i n g To o l s
AirMagnet Laptop Analyzer provides a suite of more than 15 troubleshooting tools to pin-point and solve wireless network
problems.

Wireless Device Find Tool
The Find Tool locks onto a particular AP or station and guides you to the physical
location of non-complaint device or Rogue APs. The Find Tool can also be used to
align signals between antennas to quickly optimize reception in line-of-sight bridging.

Connection Troubleshooting
Directly troubleshoot connectivity between any client and AP in the network by viewing the
step-by-step progress of a connection to pinpoint where the process is breaking down. Also use
traditional tools such as Ping, Traceroute, Whois, DHCP, and DNS Lookup.

Multipath Detection
With the Signal Distribution tool you can identify very rapid fluctuations in signal quality from
any given access point to detect the presence of multipath interference at a particular location
or even identify a malfunctioning access point.

AirMagnet Laptop Analyzer PRO
AirMagnet Laptop PRO is a separate version of the Laptop software containing all the functionality of the basic version plus
an additional set of features tailored to the needs of the wireless expert. Additional features include:

4.9 GHz US Public Safety Band

Compliance Reports

AirMagnet Laptop Analyzer users can monitor the band,
detect security and performance issues and use a suite of
troubleshooting tools to solve problems in the 4.9 GHz US
Public Safety Band. Users need to use an AirMagnet
supported 4.9 GHz wireless adapter for this feature.

AirMagnet provides detailed compliance reports for a variety
of regulatory standards including Sarbanes-Oxley, Basel II,
EU-CRD (Cad 3), ISO 27001, FISMA, HIPAA, PCI-DSS, DoD
8100.2, and GLBA. Reports provide a step-by-step pass/fail
assessment of each section of the standard. As a result, IT
staff can take the guess work out of compliance audits and
complete their work in a fraction of the time.

200+ 802.11a channel support
AirMagnet Laptop allows the scanning of extended
channels (up to 200) in the 5 Ghz spectrum. Since wireless
hackers won’t necessarily restrict their efforts to the
commonly used channels, the ability to scan a wider range
of the spectrum is becoming increasingly necessary.

Integrated Reporting
AirMagnet's integrated reporter makes it easy to turn your
Wi-Fi analysis sessions into professional customized
reports. Choose from a library of pre-built reports or
generate your own targeted reports by selecting specific
items of interest from the user interface. Reports cover all
areas of management including RF statistics, channel
reports, device reports, security and performance issue
reports.

Spectrum Analyzer Integration
Users that own the AirMagnet Spectrum Analyzer can view
both Wi-Fi and Spectrum (layer 1 FFT spectrum plot) data
during a single capture session giving them the most
complete view of the wireless environment possible. Users
will also be able view the list of detected non Wi-Fi interfering
devices such as Bluetooth devices, cordless phones,
microwave ovens, RF Jammers, etc. and monitor the
channels affected, power capabilities & duty cycle of each
interfering source.

Peer to Peer
AirMagnet enables technicians to share live sessions
between two Laptop analyzers so both users can analyze
and discuss the same data.

Product

Part Number

Laptop Analyzer Standard

A1152

Laptop Analyzer PRO

A1150

Laptop Analyzer Standard to
Laptop Analyzer PRO (upgrade model)

A1153

AirMagnet Spectrum Analyzer (optional)

A4030

Patents: U.S. Patent No. 7009957, 7236460,
7292562, 7289465 and 7130289. Additional patents
pending.

ELEXO
20 Rue de Billancourt
92100 Boulogne-Billancourt
Téléphone : 33 (0) 1 41 22 10 00
Télécopie : 33 (0) 1 41 22 10 01
Courriel : info@elexo.fr
TVA : FR00722063534

Minimum System Requirements
Microsoft® Windows VistaTM Business or Ultimate, 2000
(SP 4) or XPTM Professional (SP 2) / Tablet PC Edition
2005 (SP 2) or MAC OS X LeopardTM (Apple® MacBook®
Pro running Windows XPTM PRO/SP2 using Boot Camp® )
Intel® Pentium® III 1.26 GHz (Pentium® M 1.6Ghz or
higher recommended)
256 MB Memory (512 MB recommended) for Windows
2000/XPTM PRO, 512 MB Memory (1 GB
recommended) for Windows VistaTM
An AirMagnet Spectrum Analyzer Adapter and license
(Required for viewing spectrum data and classifying
non-802.11 devices. Not supported on Ultra Mobile PC
platform)
100 MB of free disk space
Cardbus, Expresscard or mini PCI slot
For Ultra Mobile PC platform support: OQO model 02/e2:
http://www.oqo.com/products/index.html (Better, best, and
best with SSD models supported. Windows XPTM PRO
only)
Supported wireless adapter

Copyright © 2008, AirMagnet, Inc. All rights reserved. 02/07/08 Laptop76DS v2

P r o d u c t Fa c t s

