It

RF

Chameleon
Mobile Phone use while
Jamming
Use your mobile phone while jamming everyone
else.
Using the long experience of designing and
manufacturing jamming systems for VI P's and
Dignitaries Digital RF has developed 'Chameleon' a
Digital Phone System which can be used while
jamming.
Designated users can use their own mobile phone to
call each other and make and receive external calls
while preventing all other people in the coverage
area of the jammer.
Easy to operate Chameleon can be used in fixed
environments such as Buildings, Convention Centers
or Hotel, or be used on the move where 'on-themove' services are provided or available.

The operation of Chameleon utilises three components within
the system ; a Digital RF Digital Private Network (DPN) , a
Blackshadow fully programmable jammer module I system ,
and the Digital RF Network Monitor.
Each of the three systems are combined under the
Chameleon system to enable special security forces to deploy
a mobile phone service for the team and VIP to use for
internal communications and making or receiving external
calls.

Features
VIPs and Security Forces use their own Mobiles for open
communications while jamming .
All none authorised users are fully block.
Static deployment and On-The Move (OTM) options.
Location, National or International calls.
Built in AC Power Supplies for continuous use.
Easy to use GUI .
Full training and Turn-key solution .
System suitable for air transportation.

Digital RF Ltd
Walford House
Generals Lane
Boreham , Chelmsford
Essex CM3 3HW

Example of a Digital RF
Blackshadow Close
Protection Integrated System

Tel +44 (0)1245 467786
Fax +44(0)1 245 468716
Email Sales@DigitalRF.net
www.DigitalRF.net

Digital RF maintains a policy of improvement and reserves the right to modify the specification without prior notice.
DRF 12/CHAM/1304

Description.
While the aim for protection is to jam and prevent the use of mobile phones it is
always difficult for the VIP and protection team who often needs to keep in contact.
Digital RF are pleased to provide a protection system which will enable the VIP, and
designated staff, the ability to use their phones during an operation .

The key features of the system are:

- Digital RF Blackshadow Jammer System : This portable I fixed jammer can be
configured to cover multiple bands. It is used by close protection staff to block
mobile phones which may be used for communications or the detonation of
RCIEDs. A feature of the Blackshadow Jammer systems is the fully programmable
software control. Digital RF have developed Chameleon which utilizes this software
configurable feature , the Digital RF Network Monitor and Digital Private Network so
only those allowed can make and receive calls from within the jammed area .

- Network Monitor: This is a Digital RF system which analyses the mobile phone
network either in a vehicle or on foot. During the analysis details of all Base Stations
are recorded with an accurate record of the locations via GPS (when available). A
survey of a location or route provides a database of the local mobile phone network.
This database is analyzed and used to configure the Jammer and Digital Private
Network.

- Digital Private Network: A portable dedicated Digital RF Private Network (DPN)
is positioned in a vehicle or an office near the area of operation . The Network has
a back haul facility to the Digital RF PBX to provide connection to external calls.
Digital RF have developed a special interface between the Blackshadow
Jammers, Digital Private Network and the Network Monitor to coordinate the
operation of the jammer and mobile private network to enable authorized users to
access the public network using their normal GSM phone and make and receive
calls.

- Please contact us for a full technical proposal.

Digital RF Ltd
Walford House
Generals Lane
Boreham , Chelmsford
Essex CM3 3HW

Tel +44 (0)1245 467786
Fax +44(0)1245 468716
Email Sales@DigitalRF.net
www.DigitalRF.net

Digital RF maintains a policy of improvement and reserves the right to modify the specification without prior notice.
ORF 12/CHAM/1304

