Portable interception technology

FoxReplay
Personal
Workstation
The FoxReplay Personal Workstation is
portable. That’s unique in the interception
technology landscape. The ability to move
your interception analysis tool opens new
possibilities. You can analyze traffic outside
the office, or even at the interception site.
Sharing information about intercepted
communication with other parties is easy when
you can bring your analysis tool to a meeting.

No need for big investments, no need for a big infrastructure

Benefits of the Personal Workstation

The Personal Workstation is built to be practical. It contains the same
analysis technology as big solutions, which means it supports all protocols

•

Portable interception technology

and has the same real-time capabilities that our renowned multi-server

•

Real-time & Streaming

racks solutions offer. Only a small amount of administration is needed for

•

Perfect reconstruction

the Personal Workstation, you only need to administer a single laptop.

•

Communication in chronological order

•

Full-text search

Simple management, simple procedures

•

Swift support for changed internet protocols / applications

The single user configuration of the Personal Workstation doesn’t need

•

Support for custom internet protocols / applications

complex procedures. The simple workflow of the product only demands a

•

As easy as using the internet

small level of technical expertise from the analysts and the managing staff.

•

See exactly what the target saw

The single user environment reduces the amount of overhead and allows

•

Simultaneous ‘side-by-side’ communications

the user to focus his attention towards his goal of gaining insight in the

•

Supports all natural languages

intercepted internet traffic.

•

Client-side software

Real-time & Streaming
You can insert the intercepted traffic directly into the Personal Workstation
and see the results of your interception without delay. You can start to
look and listen into the conversations as soon as the packets arrive in the
system. The full text search and categorized displays allows you to quickly
find the information you are interested in.

Easy to expand
Thinking of expanding in the future? Two laptops double the capabilities

Fox-IT

of a single Personal Workstation, so scaling is easy. For further growth you

tion technology to the applications your targets are using.

Fox-IT is a leading IT security company with a strong international reputation. From our headquarters in the Netherlands and
our offices in Aruba and the UK, we deliver specialist security
and intelligence solutions for government bodies and other
major organizations worldwide. Our core business is developing
solutions for the protection of state secrets, conducting digital
forensics, audits, managed security services, consultancy and
training courses.

FoxReplay Analyst Personal Workstation gives you the top of the
industry internet interception technology in a portable form.

contact

can use the complete FoxReplay Analyst suite. Using the Personal Workstation will make the transition to this comprehensive system’ complete
system an easy one.
A complete FoxReplay Analyst setup will meet the highest demands in
capacity and support for procedures, and gives you the chance to expand
and customize the product, giving you the chance to adapt your intercep-

Fox-IT
Olof Palmestraat 6
2616 LM Delft
The Netherlands
t
f
e

P.O Box 638
2600 AP Delft

+31 (0)15 284 79 99
+31 (0)15 284 79 90
replay-sales@fox-it.com

www.foxreplay.eu

