Digital Ii
COMPANY PROFILE
DIGITAL RF LIMITED

Introduction.
Digital RF offers complete counter terrorist and surveillance systems,
bespoke to a client's need including the latest technology, training and field
support.
Its staff and supporting engineers have worked together for some 40 years
in designing RF systems.
Digital RF is a UK Company which Designs and Manufactures all its own
products in the UK including; Software, Digital FPGA processing, Modulation
and Frequency converters, Power Amplifiers, Detectors, Antennas and more.
Maintaining full control of design and manufacture enables Digital RF to fully
support its customers for the entire product range.

The Company.
Digital RF was established in 2003 to design and build Jammers to supply
into the security market with the growing use of IEDs.
The company has continued to grow supplying into conflict areas such as
Iraq and Pakistan as well as many other countries.
Digital RF maintain a policy of keeping all key design skills within the
company. The company staff and supporting staff comprise of RF design
engineers, software engineers, mechanical designer, system engineers,
project manager, test and assembly staff. Digital RF maintain Systems
complaint to IS09001

f age 1 of 3

April 2013

Digital RF Ltd Walford House, Generals Lane, Boreham, Chelmsford Essex CM3 3HW
Company Registration No. 4600711
www.digitalrf.net
Email: sales@digitalrf.net
Tel +44 (0) 1245 451601

Digital Ii
The Products.
Wide-band lammers:
Blackshadow.
In the Company's support of counter terrorist systems it manufactures a
range of high power HF, VHF, UHF and Microwave jammers which have
been designed by the company for the protection of vehicles, VIPs,
buildings and foot patrollers against radio controlled land mines or bombs.
Blackshadow jams GSM/3G/WiFi/Wimax mobile telephone/systems and
communications systems from 20Mhz to 9000Mhz and above. This
equipment deploys the latest technology and software as described in the
Blackshadow system brochure.
There are currently over 100+ Black Shadow Jammers sold into Military,
NATO and Civil Defence organisation over the world.

GSM Detect. Block and Counter Measures.
In today's society having tools to detect, jam and monitor Mobile phone
communications are essential in the prevention of terrorism. Digital RF have
developed a range of products to equip security personnel with the latest
technology in Mobile phone counter measures.

Cell-block.
Digital RFs jamming technology has been deployed in secure locations such
as Prisons to detect, jam and monitor mobile phone activity under the name
Cell-block. Utilising the Blackshadow technology a comprehensive system of
jamming, frequency monitoring, ethernet control, detector activity logging
and GSM network status is provided to the user.

Network Guard.
Digital RF's Cell-Monitor provides rapid notification of any rogue Base
Telephone Station attempting to covertly listen to mobile phones. CellMonitor is the essential tool to independently monitor the Base Telephone
Station activity around sensitive buildings I offices. By continuously scanning
all available networks rogue BTS activity can be seen instantly and the
position of the rogue BTS source located on a map.

Cell-Interception.
Taking both RF and Digital technology to the next level Digital RF have
developed an IMSI / IMEi grabber to locate and identify target phones and
enable access.

Page 2 of 3

April 2013

Digital RF Ltd Walford House, Generals Lane, Boreham, Chelmsford Essex CM3 3HW
Company Registration No. 4600711
www .diqitalrf.net
Email : sales@digitalrf.net
Tel +44 (Q) 1245 451601

.

-.

Digital Iii
GSM Tracking Devices.
Reporter
Digital RF has developed a range of small battery powered Modules that use
the latest GSM and GPS technology to provide equipment ot personnel
status information and location tracking.
Smaller than a mobile phone the Reporter can be placed discretely on a
person, in a bag or in a vehicle. The Reporter will give its position and
acquired equipment or personnel data on a timed basis or when requested
from a Control Centre. The precise location is calculated from the GSM
cellular network or GPS co-ordinates if available. Using highly integrated
efficient Controllers, the Reporter can operate for many months on a single
charge of the battery.
Other activities:

Microwave Links.
The company is also active in promoting the use of fixed and mobile
COFDM digital radio transmission systems for transmission of video from
inside to outside a building or from a street threat to a mobile control
centre. These systems offer significant advantages over FM
transmissions for covert surveillance or protection of foot patrols.

Blackshadow Jammer References
Due to the confidential nature of the systems supplied by Digital RF it is not possible to
be specific about all projects however the following is a list of some countries in which
jammers have been deployed and some applications.
UK - Government
FRANCE - POLICE
IRAQ - POLICE
KENYA- UN
IRELAND - Police
PAKISTAN - MOI / MOJ
SUDAN - UN
THAILAND - RTAF and Police
BANGLADESH - MOI
EGYPT- MOI
CHILE - MOJ
NIGERIA - Government
VENEZUELA - MOJ
LIBYA- MOI
INDONESIA - MOI
MEXICO - Government
DUBAI - Police
and more ......
Page 3 of 3

April 2013

Digital RF Ltd Walford House, Generals Lane, Boreham, Chelmsford Essex CM3 3HW
Company Registration No. 4600711
www.digitalrf.net
Email: sales@digitalrf.net
Tel +44 (0\ 1245 451601

