Active Off-Air System
3GN UMTS

CONFIDENTIAL
– Subject
to change
withoutwithout
prior notice!
CONFIDENTIAL
– Subject
to change
prior notice!

1

Active Off-Air System: 3GN UMTS

General Overview
The 3GN is a state-of-the-art multi-channel UMTS (WCDMA or 3G) tactical off-air cell
phone identity collection system. Using the 3GN, it is possible for the first time to simultaneously collect the identities of UMTS (3G) mobile phones on 2 different UMTS
networks or 2 different channels of the same network.
Building on the impressive capabilities of the current product range, the 3GN is capable of working co-operatively with GSM-XPZ. Control is streamlined to allow operation
of both systems from a single interface. Users can simultaneously acquire the identities of GSM and 3G phones and display this and other information in a real-time converged database.
When working in tandem with a GSM-XPZ, it is possible to acquire a target phone on
UMTS and then ‘push’ the target onto the GSM-XPZ cell and into a Blind Call for geolocating and tracking purposes.
The native 3G technology is unique in the marketplace in that it has no detrimental effect on 3G phones within its zone of influence. The technology enables control of target mobile phones and normal rejection of non-target mobile phones on 3G. Unlike a
jamming solution, non-target 3G mobile phones are caught on 3G and then allowed to
continue to use their normal 3G network with no impedance to service.

CONFIDENTIAL – Subject to change without prior notice!

2

Main Features
• UMTS Band 1 (2100MHz) operation
• Transmits 2x3GPP configured UMTS cells simultaneously to a maximum of 5W
each
• Adjustable Node B transmission power, ranging from 1mW to a maximum of 20W
on a single Node B
• Integrated Antenna Switch for up to 3 antennas
• 3G Identify Grabbing using protocol message exchanges rather than ‘Jamming’
• Advanced Node B configuration for emulation of any UMTS network
• Fast UMTS cell configuration using optional 3G Spectrum Scanner
• Integrated 2G/3G system operation when connected to a GSM-XPZ system
• User friendly Graphical User Interface (GUI)
• Single combined database for 2G & 3G operation
• Identification whether mobile phone is caught on 2G or 3G
• Powerful database search facility for quick target identification
• ‘Push to 2G’ function allows specific target mobiles to be assigned to the GSMXPZ and instantly placed in Blind Call for geo-locating purposes

3GN Specifications
Function

Channels
Channel Range
RF Output Power
RF Output Connector
Size
Weight
Operating Temperature
Storage Temperature
Power Supply
Power Consumption

Acquire the identity parameters (IMSI, IMEI & TMSI) of
UMTS cell phones off-air from two different UMTS networks simultaneously. ‘Push’ target cell phones to GSM
in a controlled manner for geo-locating. Correctly interact
with non-target cell phones to preserve 3G network service in the operational zone.
Two (2)
UMTS Band 1 (2110-2170MHz)
2 x 5W max or 1 x 20W max
3 x N Type
W 324mm x H 180mm x D 398mm
16,5kg (20kg including carry case)
-5°C to + 45°C
-10°C to + 70°C
12Vdc – 24 Vdc
25A, 600W maximum @ 24 Vdc

CONFIDENTIAL – Subject to change without prior notice!

3

CONFIDENTIAL – Subject to change without prior notice!

4

