Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS
Unified Lawful Interception Suite
The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS adds lawful-interception
functions to Alcatel-Lucent products, adapting their
internal interfaces to the standard lawful-interception
interfaces of Law-Enforcement Agency monitoring
facilities.

Address lawful-interception
requirements
Lawful interception of telecommunications is a capability that allows authorized
organizations or Law Enforcement Agencies (LEAs) to detect and intercept the use
of telecommunications facilities by criminal or terrorist organizations.
All telecommunications operators are obliged to comply with government regulations
to enable the interception of any type of call, and most countries have adopted
global lawful-interception requirements and standards.
However, with the convergence of voice and data and the rapid transformation of
operator networks to IP, the lawful interception of voice and data communications
is becoming increasingly challenging for both service providers and LEAs.
In addition, most current solutions are fragmented and therefore do not provide a
complete lawful-interception capability across all networking domains, functions
and interfaces.
Further complicating the issue, government authorities/LEAs and network operators
have different objectives, activities, constraints and liabilities and require different
systems and approaches for lawful interception.
Government authorities/LEAs require turnkey solutions that adhere to relevant
standards and operating procedures. They are not concerned with the underlying
network topologies that are in a state of constant evolution.
For network operators, lawful interception is non-core business. They therefore
require systems that can be installed and maintained with minimal cost and with
no impact to the performance or reliability of their existing networks and services.
At the same time, lawful interception requires very close cooperation between
government authorities/LEAs and network operators.
Alcatel-Lucent addresses the needs of government authorities/LEAs and network
operators with the Alcatel-Lucent 1357 Unified Lawful Interception Suite (ULIS).

2

Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS Unifi ed Lawful Interception Suite

Apply a comprehensive solution
The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS is a complete communicationsinterception solution. It provides government authorities/LEAs and
network operators with an integrated system for transparently
intercepting and extracting real-time information from vast
amounts of voice, data and multimedia communications over
virtually any type of network.
With the ability to intercept any type of communications traffic
and to monitor selected subscribers in real time, the Alcatel-Lucent
1357 ULIS provides LEAs with:
• Intercept-Related Information (IRI) – The signaling information
that provides the source and destination of a call, as well
as supplementary data such as date/time of the event and
the interception reference. The information can also convey
intercepted Short Message Service (SMS), user-to-user service
content, and Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) messages.
• Content of communication (CC) – Includes voice, fax, data,
video or message content carried on a speech channel, or
information exchanged on a high-speed Internet access link.
The interception system is not detectable by the parties involved
in an intercepted communication, and it does not affect the
basic and supplementary services of intercepted subscribers.

Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS Unifi ed Lawful Interception Suite

3

Choose standalone or turnkey
The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS is the
lawful-interception solution for the
following products:

CL A SSIC FIXED AND MOBILE
Alcatel-Lucent 1000 E10
Alcatel-Lucent 1000 S12
Alcatel-Lucent 5ESS
Alcatel-Lucent 1000 MSC-E10

NEXT-GENERATION NETWORK
(N G N)/ I P M U LTI M E D I A
SU BSYSTEM (I M S) FI X E D
AND MOBILE
Alcatel-Lucent 5020 MGC-12
Alcatel-Lucent 5060 MGC-10
Alcatel-Lucent 5060 WCS
Alcatel-Lucent 5020 CSC
Alcatel-Lucent 5060 ICS
Alcatel-Lucent 5450 ISC

IP FIXED AND MOBILE
Alcatel-Lucent 7450 ESS and 7750 SR
Alcatel-Lucent 5750 SSC
Alcatel-Lucent 7500 SGSN
Alcatel-Lucent 7604 GGSN
Other network-infrastructure
manufacturers’ aggregation or
edge routers

4

Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS Unifi ed Lawful Interception Suite

Three primary elements are required within the public network
to achieve lawful interception:
• Internal Intercept Function (IIF) – Located within the network
nodes. The IIF is responsible for generating the IRI and CC.
• Mediation function – Clearly delineates the public network
from law-enforcement monitoring facilities (LEMFs). The
mediation function communicates with the IIF using internal
network interfaces (INIs), which can be proprietary. It also
communicates with one or more LEMFs through locally
standardized Handover Interfaces (HI2 and HI3).
• Administration function – Manages orders for interception
in the public network. It serves interception orders, delivers
the data and content to the LEA, and communicates with the
internal IIF and mediation function through an INI.
These elements must feed into an LEMF, which records and
processes intercepted calls on the LEA side.
As a standalone offering, the Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS performs
the interception-mediation function between an operator’s
network and LEAs. Interception mediation is required to translate
internal IRI/call content to the standard external formats required
by the LEMF. The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS is compliant with
lawful-interception standards worldwide. Moreover, when
the IIF is not available in IP network nodes, the Alcatel-Lucent
1357 ULIS can generate the IRI and CC.
The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS can also be part of a turnkey
lawful-interception solution designed to provide umbrella
management. Umbrella management is used for multivendor
mediation functions and allows a network operator or LEA to
centralize lawful-interception management. This approach can
be used by a government that requires umbrella management of
all telecommunications operators within a country or by a large
telecommunications operator that requires centralized management
of all infrastructure and equipment, as well as third-party LEMFs
and monitoring centers.

Integrate end-to-end
components

The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS
offers standard Handover Interfaces
(HI1, HI2 and HI3) toward the
LEA/LEMF, according to:
 Third-Generation Partnership Project
(3GPP) specifications 33.106,
33.107, 33.108

The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS system has three main components,
shown in Figure 1 and in the generalized lawful-interception
architecture in Figure 2:

 ETSI ES 201 671

• Unique Interception Management Center (IMC), which handles
the lawful-interception administration function and:

 ETSI TS 102 232-1, 102 232-3,
102 232-4, 102 232-5, 102-232-6

¬ Centralizes the management of all lawful-interception
orders, particularly warrant activation/deactivation using the
internal GUI or external access on the HI1 interface

 ATIS (CALEA) T1.678
 System of Operative Investigative
Activities (SORM) standard, and
several Chinese interfaces

¬ Concentrates all IRI received from the Lawful Interception
Gateways (LIGs) and transmits it to the LEMF using the
HI2 interface

The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS adapts
the internal interfaces of Alcatel-Lucent
products to international standards on
the LEMF side.

¬ Provides single management across all network domains
To improve the total availability rate, the IMC can be provided in
a high-availability configuration.

Other standards can be adapted
on request.

Figure 1. The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS in fixed and mobile networks
Network operator

Classic
domain

GSM,
UMTS CS

LEA network
PSTN

LIG
PSTN

LIG

LIG
NGN domain

GSM,
UMTS CS

LEMF
LEMF

LIG

HI1
1357 ULIS network

IMC

HI2
HI3

LIG

Warrant
management
IRI collection
CC collection

GPRS,
UMTS PS
LIG

LIG
LIP

IMS

Routers
IP domain

Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS Unifi ed Lawful Interception Suite

5

• Distributed LIGs
¬ Manage IRI and CC mediation
functions
¬ Generate and deliver IRI and CC
according to the network topology
of the LEMF or monitoring centers
The number of LIGs depends on
the network size and the targeted
traffic ﬂows.
Depending on the CC delivery type
toward the LEMF or monitoring center,
the LIG architecture can be Circuit
Switched (LIG-CS) or IP-based (LIG-IP).
To improve the total availability rate,
the LIG-IP can be provided in an
automatic-redundancy configuration.

Intercepted communications are
recorded and processed by the LEMF.
If the LEMF is not an Alcatel-Lucent
product, Alcatel-Lucent can provide
it as part of a complete integrated
solution.

Converged Services and Protocols for
Advanced Networking [TISPAN]), the
links between the LIG-IP and the LEMF
occur over an IP network.
Transmission of IRI from the IMC to
the LEMF uses an existing or dedicated
data network over an HI2 interface. An
optional HI1 interface gives external
terminals access to the IMC. This interface
allows LEA operators to activate/
deactivate interception on a target
but not to manage the interception
network: they may not manage LEAs or
interception areas or create an LEMF.

Transmission of intercepted call
content from the LIG-CS to the LEMF
is generally done over the telephone
network. The LIG-CS establishes the
call over a Primary Rate Access (PRA)
or ISDN (Integrated Services Digital
Network) User Part (ISUP) interface
(HI3). In a packet scenario (General
Packet Radio Service [GPRS], Universal
Mobile Telecommunications System
[UMTS] Packet Switched [PS], IP, or
IMS/Telecommunications and Internet

This option is useful for avoiding the
double-keying of intercept data by
operators in the IMC and LEMF.

• Distributed Lawful Interception
Probes (LIPs)
¬ Used when no IIF is present in a
service-provider core network

Figure 2. The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS in an ETSI/3GPP network

¬ Can handle IRI and/or CC network
internal functions

Network operator domain
LEA domain

The number of LIPs depends on
the network size and the targeted
traffic ﬂows.

Administration
function

HI1

LEA

IRI
IRI mediation
function

Network
internal
functions

HI2
LEMF

CC
CC mediation
function

IIF
Internal
network
interfaces
(INI)

6

Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS Unifi ed Lawful Interception Suite

HI3

External
interfaces (HI)

LEVERAGE A FIELD-PROVEN SOLUTION
The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS has been deployed in more than 70 countries
worldwide. It is a field-proven and tested system, compatible with the products
of the main LEMF providers.
With this system, service providers and government authorities/LEAs can create
a clear partition between the world of telecommunications operations and the
world of law and justice. The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS protects the interests of
both parties. It does not allow telecommunications operators to see the data and
commands of LEA operators, and it does not allow LEA operators to interfere with
network operations, administration and maintenance.
The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS is a ﬂexible solution for lawful interception that
allows mediation of a variety of evolving interfaces on all network elements with
standard LEA interfaces. Similarly, the Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS minimizes the
impact on network elements when standards change.
The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS is scalable from one LIG to tens of LIGs, with one
IMC managing several different networks when required. The Alcatel-Lucent 1357
ULIS permits up to 16 LEAs to share the same IMC and to monitor the
same targets independently.

Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS Unifi ed Lawful Interception Suite

7

Partner with
Alcatel-Lucent
With the Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS, service
providers and LEAs benefit from the experience
and expertise Alcatel-Lucent has developed in
all areas of telecommunications. Alcatel-Lucent
has set the pace for change in communications
networking technologies. We continue to
innovate by combining what is possible in
science and technology with what is required
by the markets.
With one of the largest global research
and development (R&D) capabilities in the
communications industry, as well as our
renowned Alcatel-Lucent Bell Labs and
Research & Innovation research communities,
we help bring customers to the forefront of
technical innovation every day.
Through our research facilities in 14 different
countries, we have invested more than 3.6 billion
United States dollars in R&D and have secured
more than 25,000 patents. In addition, the
celebrated Bell Labs’ record for innovation
is unmatched and includes the development
of transformational technologies such as the
transistor, laser, solar cell, high-definition television
(HDTV), and remote laptop-security solutions
(even when a laptop is turned off).

No other vendor in the industry can match this
depth and record of research and innovation.
Beyond research, Alcatel-Lucent recognizes
that it takes the right combination of customer
services, applications and infrastructure to
successfully apply technical innovations that
enable new business models that improve
customer relationships, increase employee
productivity, and are more adaptive to
changing markets.
As a proven telecommunications partner, we
bring extensive experience in delivering large,
multivendor, multitechnology solutions to
organizations around the globe.
The Alcatel-Lucent Professional Services team is
the most experienced and knowledgeable services
partner in the industry, supporting the top
30 service providers as well as enterprise and
government customers in over 130 countries.
Our Operations Support System/Business
Support System (OSS/BSS) integration solutions,
professional-services expertise and proven
capabilities cover multiple areas, including
consulting, end-to-end solution design and
integration, deployment, migration, program
management, and operations support services
that encompass the entire network and service
life cycle.

www.alcatel-lucent.com

Alcatel, Lucent, Alcatel-Lucent and the Alcatel-Lucent logo
are trademarks of Alcatel-Lucent. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
The information presented is subject to change without notice. Alcatel-Lucent assumes no responsibility
for inaccuracies contained herein. Copyright © 2011 Alcatel-Lucent. All rights reserved.
M2011121444 (12)

