ability

IBIS - II
In Between Interception System
2nd Generation

..................

The IBIS-II is the most advanced and newest GSM interception system in the market.
The system was designed and developed according to the vast experience gathered in
the last 10 years, while deploying worldwide hundreds of GSM interception systems,
listening to customer's feedback and analyzing customer's operational requirements.
The IBIS-II is an advanced integrated active solution that includes all relevant sub
systems in a single unit, allows the user to scan, analyze, intercept, monitor, record
and track GSM mobiles, regardless if they are encrypted by AS.1 or AS.2 encryption
(monitoring is not done by forcing the mobile to use AS.O or AS.2 but rather by an
integrated deciphering capability).
The IBIS-II is a stand-alone solution for off the air interrogation / interception /
monitoring/ deception of tactical GSM communication, in a seamless way, without any
cooperation with the network provider.
The IBIS-II is restricted for Law Enforcement Agencies and Authorized Governmental
Agencies and it offers them a powerful tool to intercept and track GSM communication
of all types.

ABILITY COMPUTERS & SOFTWARE INDUSTRIES LTD

17 Hat zefira St, Tel Aviv, I s rael 67779 I Tel +972 3 687 9777 I Fax +972 3 537 6483

ability

The IBIS-II extracts easily and in short time the mobiles ID's such as IMEI, IMSI &
TMSI and allows the user in no time to identify his target mobiles and to monitor them.
The IBIS-II offers a complete set of capabilities and advance features to allow the user
to control the GSM environment and GSM communication. The user can control the
level of service to the target mobiles, selectively Jam specific mobiles, perform silent
calls, call or SMS on behalf of target mobile, change SMS messages "on the fly", detect
change of SIM card or change of handset, and support Direction Finding system and
many additional operational features.

The IBIS-II main capabilities:
• All GSM in One Single Unit - the IBISII includes all required modules for dual
band simultaneous interception in AS.2
and AS.1 environment. No need for any
additional hardware.
• Instant Set Up Time - without need
for external modules, setup is within few
minutes only.
• Dual Band Solution - any of the
required frequencies 850, 900, 1800,
1900MHz.
• Real Time Interception - for voice
and SMS, Incoming and Outgoing, in AS.1
and AS.2 networks.
• Semi Passive - Invisible & undetectable
operation, no need for cooperation with
network providers.
• Data Extracting - system detects
mobile identities including IMSI, IMEI,
TMSI, MSISDN (phone number), Kc etc.

• Presence verification - user can detect
presence of specific target mobile.
•Concurrent Calls - system Intercepts up
to 6 concurrent duplex calls by default.
• Selective jamming of communication
- user can \block communication of GSM
phones defined as targets or specific
network service (voice, SMS).
• Direction Finding Support - by using
silent call, target mobile is activated and
can be traced by external OF I Homing
system.
• Manipulation - user can make fake
calls and send fake SMS to / from target.
• Remote Control - IBIS-II can be
operated locally by the system laptop, by
LAN connection and remote laptop or via
WiFi, by a remote laptop.

System can operate with variety of power sources such as AC supply, batteries, car
supply etc and by that, it can be installed and operated in many types of applications
and environments (fixed installation, remote control configuration, transportable,
vehicular, man pack).
ABILITY COMPUTERS & SOFTWARE INDUSTRIES LTD

17 Hatzefira St, Tel Aviv, Israel 67779 I Tel +972 3 687 9777 I Fax +972 3 537 6483

