ELBIT SYSTEMS LAND AND C4I
Intelligence and Cyber Solutions

CyberShield Command Core

Managing the cyber battlefield and the proactive cyber defense array to ensure confidentiality, availability and integrity of critical cyber assets

CyberShield Command Core

Managing the cyber battlefield and the proactive cyber defense array to ensure confidentiality, availability and integrity of critical cyber assets

Protecting critical infrastructure from cyber-warfare, cyberespionage and cyber-crime has created complex challenges
for security teams and network managers, as well as national
leaders, commanders and executives charged with protecting
their organizations from cyber-attacks. General cyber-threats
and Advanced Persistent Threats (APTs) take on many forms
posing a major risk to governments, militaries and civilian
infrastructure.
Elbit Systems’ CyberShield Command Core enables the
prevention and protection of computer networks and critical
systems from cyber-incidents and threats, while providing
high-fidelity defense of critical cyber-assets. As an integral part
of Elbit Systems’ CyberShield solution, CyberShield Command
Core’s technology supports all phases of the cyber-defense
process, providing a comprehensive solution.
CyberShield Command Core’s modular infrastructure allows
for data collection and transportation, information sharing
and data dissemination, as well as long-term scalable storage
for analysis, advanced detection and data mining. With its
end-to-end cyber incident management capabilities and
comprehensive situational awareness, CyberShield Command
Core ensures data and network confidentiality, availability
and integrity.

Effective Cyber Strategy:
Active Defense
Elbit Systems’ CyberShield’s proactive approach is supported by technological solutions and includes
five phases to defend against cyber threats and attacks: data gathering, analysis, management,
response and prevention.

Gathering: monitoring and identification of events and traffic from networks, along
with intelligence gathering. Data is collected and stored in long-term scalable storage
for further correlation and analysis.

Analysis: enrichment, aggregation and correlation of gathered information using
high-end technologies and advanced detection methods and algorithms, as well as
impact analysis tools.

Management: end-to-end cyber incident management, from the detection phase to
the mitigation and reaction phases. Workflow, tasking, and documentation capabilities
are supported, while decision support recommendations and essential data for event
analysis are automatically provided to the user, together with comprehensive cyber
situational awareness.

Response: containing and mitigating the event using interfaces to the proactive cyber
defense array, post-event analysis, management and documentation.

Prevention: implementation of smart enforcement tools for monitoring network compliance,
proactive protection arrays and cyber defense training.

CyberShield Command Core

Managing the cyber battlefield and the proactive cyber defense array to ensure confidentiality, availability and integrity of critical cyber assets

•	 CyberShield Command Core is a modular system consisting of
four functional units with a common infrastructure to enable
the provision of end-to-end protection of critical networks
within a rapidly changing cyber domain. The modular system
can be tailored to the customer’s cyber defense doctrine and
is comprised of the following units:
•	 Command and Control (C2) – providing real-time
monitoring and management of cyber incidents, cyber
situational awareness, decision support, impact analysis,
and management of the cyber response array.
•	 Active Defense and Research – APT detection and active
hunting using designated tools and algorithms. The system is
ideal for silent attack detection, anomaly detection, pattern
analysis, and vulnerability research. This module provides
research, analysis, and data retrieval capabilities used for
event investigation during and after the event.
•	 Cyber Intelligence - acquisition and extraction of cyberdefense intelligence, combining collection systems,
data management and alert generation mechanisms for
closing the intelligence-C2 operational loop. This module
also includes receipt of intelligence from various sources
(including open sources) in order to provide information on
threats and vulnerabilities. It also performs processing and
analysis to support operational processes, enrich detection
algorithms and generate intelligence-based cyber alerts.

Operational Benefits
•	 Designed for governments, military and
critical infrastructure organizations
•	 Implementation of a proactive approach
to cyber defense
•	 Modular infrastructure ensuring
comprehensive protection
•	 Closing the intelligence-C2 and the
enforcement-policy-C2 operational loops

Key Features
•	 Real-time monitoring and control of the
cyber domain
•	 Continuous operational cyber situational
awareness
•	 End-to-end cyber incident management
and information sharing
•	 Comprehensive response management
•	 Threat intelligence alert generation
•	 Information sharing and knowledge
management

•	 Enforcement – smart and automatic enforcement and
regulation of cyber policy, including risk assessment and
compliance evaluations for detection of policy violation and
configuration changes. This module enables enforcementbased alert generation for closing the enforcement-C2
operational loop.

Elbit Systems Land and C4I Ltd.

2 Ha’machshev St., Netanya 42507, Israel
E-mail: landc4i@elbitsystems.com www.elbitsystems.com/landc4i

EP13-MKT-030 This brochure contains Elbit Systems proprietary information © 2013 Elbit Systems Ltd. and others

Smart Infrastructure Supporting the
Complete Cyber Defense Process

