ELBIT SYSTEMS LAND AND C4I
Intelligence and Cyber Defense

CyberShield NCDS™ Training System
Live training for cyber-security professionals

Training & Simulation

CyberShield NCDS™ Training System
Live training for cyber-security professionals
Key Features
•	 High-fidelity virtual defense training and simulation environment
•	 Simulation of multiple automatic and repeatable cyber attack scenarios
•	 Simulation of diverse networks from small-medium businesses up to large-scale enterprise /
government networks
•	 Virtualization and emulation of any network device and protocol					
•	 Network appliances										
•	 SCADA controllers										
•	 Servers and applications
•	 Advanced network traffic generator engine							
•	 Supports a wide range of protocols and applications						
•	 Simulates attacks and normal user behavior
•	 Real-time training on multiple security systems and tools
•	 Blue team/Red team training divisions
•	 Fully scalable and modular in design
•	 Skill assessment analysis and debriefing in AAR stations
•	 Cost efficient with maximum use of COTS hardware and software
•	 Ability to integrate any third party or customer application and hardware
•	 Option for delivery as a full turnkey implementation or in hourly increments as a service
•	 Advanced training, auditing and analysis tools

Training for a broad range of cyber security personnel

•	 Military cyber defense
•	 IT and SCADA security workforce								
•	 Energy, gas, electricity and water utilities							
•	 Telecommunication service providers

Elbit Systems Land and C4I Ltd.

2 Ha’machshev St. Netanya 42507, Israel
E-mail: landc4i@elbitsystems.com www.elbitsystems.com/landc4i

EP11-MKT- 062

•	 Cyber command

This brochure contains Elbit Systems proprietary information © 2011 Elbit Systems Ltd. and others

•	 Government cyber defense

CyberShield NCDS™ Training System
Live training for cyber-security professionals
A skilled cyber-security workforce is a key element of government efforts to combat the serious threat to national
security posed by cyber attacks, including cyber-espionage, cyber-crime and cyber-warfare. To meet this need, Elbit
Systems, a leader in the defense industry, has introduced its comprehensive CyberShield NCDS™ Training System. The
training system offers a cyber defense virtual training environment designed to train cyber-security professionals and
decision makers in securing national military and civilian networks against all forms of cyber attacks. The system is
an integral component of Elbit Systems’ comprehensive cyber defense solutions.

Planning Screen

Running Screen

Review Screen

Summary Screen

Simulated security attacks, maximizing the
awareness and improving the skills of the cyber
workforce
Conducted in a generic and secured environment, the CyberShield
NCDS™ Training System offers a scalable and realistic training
experience where trainees are exposed to various attack
scenarios and security breaches to improve their hands-on skills.
The CyberShield NCDS™ Training System can simulate large-scale
virtual networks (IT, SCADA, MANET, tactical communications, etc.)
and attacks based on previous real-world incidents, including
SCADA attack scenarios. It can also pinpoint system vulnerabilities
and help security professionals develop countermeasures and
improved protocols for dealing with cyber attacks on critical
network systems – such as communications networks and
utility grids.

Fully customizable simulations of real-world
applications
The CyberShield NCDS™ Training System is supported by
proprietary architecture and applications, advanced software
and large-scale COTS hardware. Its semi-automatic (manned
and unmanned) environment utilizes live network and
traffic simulation to train users in real-time. Easily adapted
to the customer’s actual work environment, the CyberShield
NCDS™Training System offers a range of security tools and
systems. These include risk assessment tools, monitoring
systems, security information and event management (SIEM)
systems, forensic tools and supporting databases, as well as
other network, security and cyber components.

Performance evaluation and debriefing
The CyberShield NCDS™ Training System also features an
advanced training management system, where the training
manager defines, builds, deploys and runs the training
methodology and scenario for each training session. The
trainees’ activities are tracked and recorded – along with all
logs from the network components and security information
events – to be fully analyzed during a debriefing and after
action review (AAR).
The CyberShield NCDS™ Training System is available with a choice
of implementation options. The system can be implemented
as a comprehensive turnkey solution – backed with unique
cyber training methodology – or delivered on a fee-for-service
basis by Elbit Systems.

