· erebus

International terrorism, home grown fanatics, organised crime, continual threats that affect all countries threatening and
destroying the very fabric of our communities, disrupting the individual, commerce, industry and the political agenda.

l

Erebus are proud to be able to offer advanced covert technical training services, bespoke tools and operational support
services to select Law Enforcement and governmental agencies worldwide to counter this very real threat and allow you
to observe, record and collate evidence bringing specialist covert proactive policing to the criminal and terrorist fraternity.

->

Specialist covert technical training will help your teams to instigate pre-emptive strikes through the gathering of focused
intelligence that compliments other investigative skills.
Our covert technical training courses are considered to be the best globally, they are all designed around real world
covert operational experience's to provide the learner with not only the technical bench skills required to get the job
but also ensuring that they have the practical tactical knowledge which will allow the successful operator to leave OUI
courses as a proficient, forensically aware, covert asset for their respective organisation
Our instructors have all been individually selected for their respective expertise within their chosen fields, all come from
backgrounds as Subject Matter Experts (SME's) within the lead covert organisations operating worldwide within this
niche area.
They collectively have a vast resme c+knowledge which is the h - r upon whickour training is founded, this exprisnce
fnrnr~sicalhrsnnsitivn. non.
has been gained from conductim r m r l ss cnvnrt nncrr
permissive environments.
p+#j&
K

A- ',"

Training is delivered from our secure industry leading facility which has been purpose build to deliver the train
UK, if required, training can also be delivered in other suitable approved locations within the UK or abroad.
4i-

For further information on our training courses,
bespoke tools and associated services please
contact us where we will be happy to discuss
your requirements in greater detail and, at y
convenience, arrange a visit to our facilities
where we can fully brief you on the
setvices we offer and demonstrate
will be taught.
Whilst this brochure predominantly deals with
advanced covert technical training, services and
equipment EREBUS additionally offer many other
specialist training services, these include SERE
(Survive, Evade, Resist, Extract) training for the
military and security services. Please contact us for
further information on these or any other training
urse
Erebus, helping to penetrate the enemy, gathc
the evidence and eliminate the risk.

<

r-

Erebus is unique, delivering world class covert
training with world class trainers, personnel who
have honed their skill sets over many years of
carrying out real world covert operations.

4;
I

Our company is innovative and evolving; we have
not diversified from other endeavours or activities
but have, from the offset, concentrated on delivering
the very best advanced covert technical training,
services and equipment available within the global
. market place.
We regularly deliver training to many of the leading
global user groups including Law Enforcement,
Special Forces and Security Services personnel. Our
instructors are all either ex Special Forces, ex Law
Enforcement or Security Services, they deliver our
training from a position of strength having extensive
real world covert operational experience in varied
hostile environments and have been involved in the
forefront of intelligence gathering, counter espionage
and the fight against organised crime and terrorism
for many years at both National and International
levels.

We recognise absolutely that evidence gathered by
lawful means provides the best defence against today's growing threats but know that continual improvement, evolution and
practical application delivers the results.

I

l

\
i

?

l

l

L

1

!
l

I

Our bespoke facilities have been built from the offset to provide a stimulating and practical learning environment where skills
learnt can be applied practically and safely, our classrooms, workshops, scenarios and equipment ensure that the latest
training is delivered and then reinforced through practical application. Our courses are then further supported by carrying
out 'staged' real world covert operational exercises against private and commercial facilities in and around the city both by
day and night. These practical scenarios give a real 'edge' to our training and the participants understanding of the many
spontaneous factors that can impact on a successful covert operation. These exercises ensure that our students have honed
their street based covert skill sets prior to deploying on live operations for their individual organisations.
All practical training operations are carried out with full local police support and knowledge.
The bespoke tools that we use throughout our courses are uniquely engineered and manufactured to our specific
requirements; they are practical, robust and most importantly incredibly effective.
We would like to invite you to visit our discreet training facilities where a tour, demonstration and discussions can be
confidentially arranged.
Our training can either be conducted as 'closed' courses meaning that only your students are accepted and placed upon the
course or upon 'open' courses meaning that students from other approved organisations may be in attendance. Our open
courses are scheduled throughout the year ensuring that you can make the best use of not only your personnel's availability
, but also your financial budget.
Erebus now also offer shortened modular courses that concentrate on particular aspects of covert operations,
these courses are ideal for allowing your team to refresh old or learn new skills that are specific to their operational
requirements, please visit the website to view scheduled courses or contact us directly
Erebus, delivering effective world leading covert training for the worlds covert security communities
--

:

Visit our purpose built training centre in Hereford, please contact us to arrange a convenient time

covert technical
Bespoke CME courses (2-10 days)
The Bespoke Covert Method of Entry course woul- -your wishes and needs. These may be driven by the n
a certain type of high security locking system or the re
advanced training within a certain skill set.
Erebus UK Ltd can offer courses in e
eas of Cc
"'
-earth; we can tailor courses to you
;to discuss vour trainina reauireme

4 1-

The Vehicle Covert Method of Entry course has been designed 'enhance the capability of the CME operative.
Vehicle security has for many years surpassed that of normal domestic
physical security measures; as such being able to conduct effective
covert entry against a vehicle demands that the operative has a good
understanding of the various technologies that they will have to defeat,
whether it be a high security lock or the highly encrypted immobiliser
and alarm system.
This course is aimed at personnel who have completed at least the
Level 1 CME course as this will give them the foundation skills required
to ensure they can competently carry out all of the techniques whicl
I
be reinforced during this training program.

I

m Bypass Level 1 course (5 days)

h W k n @ + .~i~tfia~"difl@r+~~$!h&ik~W
derstand how alarm-spems are fied.
land the available techniques to defeat alarm syskerm.

dersMPd t

zui%hdl~drills and rdltematlveentry ~dchniques,
dY$rmrrq t q q-,srrteq*c

+ * ~ I * * * S O

we! ~ C M EIntermediate course (1

me Level 2 Cwert Method ofdEntrycoyrse is aimed at the now trpint
h,

Level f-operator who rquires thk skills tcl workagainst locking systel
of more complexity.
This course develo~sthe o~erators'skill base to now encomDass Bril
Standard Lever locks, and introduces new techniques to bypass
insurance approved lever padlocks. Advanced lmpressioning ski1
taught alongside Advanced strip and decode procedures anc
scoping techniques.

....................................

rns

L

pass level r

l-

-

lrs€ '--'-

ur S day Alarm bypass Level 2 program rrair
ecialist in the complete use of the PINCER

.........................
,

Baggage Search course (3 dc---'F

I . .

Level 3 CME Advanced course (10 days)
The Level 3 Covert Methods of Entry course is aimed at the
Intermediate Level 2 trained operator who now requires the skills to
operate against locks of a high mechanical security value such as
Abloy, Gerda Tytan Zx, all rotating disc lock types, Mul-T-lock systems
and similar. The course will instruct and then practice the operator in
the techniques to be applied in order to decode and Open these high
security systems in a safe and covert manner.

............................
Upgrade CME course (5 days)

The "mrade
Method Of Entry course I
Out
of date trained operator back Up to date with the latest techniques. It
will also introduce them to any new equipment or techniques available
within this field.
The coume mMent would be mainly driven by the student's
requirements. Hcwever, a 5 day program will be loosely followed to gi
the flexibility to concentrate on weak areas which are identified. This
program will refresh the student8 in all the subjects covered during th
Level 1,2 and 3 courses which are pertinent to them.

The Covert Method of Entry Baggage course is designed to take a
person with no prior knowledge of covert entry and train them in ba!
covert padlocklcombination lock bypasses and covert baggage search
techniques. This course will deliver an operator who is a deployable,
proficient asset able to fully operate safely and covertly against all types
of locked baggagelluggage.

............................................
Redraid Escape Techniques coum (5 days)

The Restraint Escape Techniques course is designed to empower the
learner with the skill sets required to effect a rapid and safe self-release
from captivity. The course has been designed for members of the
Police, Armed Forces, Diplomatic Sewice and for all personnel working
inhigh risk areas of the world wherekidnap 1 abduction is a
real
threat.
This course will give them techniques that will enable them to safely
break out of captivity at the time of their choosing. This coursewill

iques
to remove their restraints ino,.der to safely

training courses
C8vert Search courses 15 days)

Basic Shim Wire Decoder

The Covert Search course is designed to ensure that your operators
can effectively search an area camtly leaving no sign to the event. This
may just be to gather evidence, i M g e n c e or it may be for a technical
recce for a future deployment of covert audio and visual devices.
This course will give the operator the ability to "cross the threshold" and
empower them with the skill sets required in order to operate safely and
covertly within that environment reducing the risk of compromise.

The course will train or revise operators in the complete operation of this
improved pin lock decode tool.
The course will cover:
1. Strip and Assembly
2. Calibration
3. Tip manufacture
1. Operational use
ault finding
- Dperators will be introduced or revised in all the techniques required
o utilise the Basic Shim Wire Decoder to full effect in a safe and cove1
manner.

Conduct on Target course (3 days)

I

Our Conduct on Target course is deslgned for all personnel who will
be entering a secured space within a covert operation. The course WIII
instruct personnel In covert movement and clearance of the propertv
. . They wiil cover cross contamination issues alongside technical and
physical clearance procedures.
This course is a minimum requirementfor any personnel who wish to
cross the threshold of a subject property during a covert operation.

techniques as weli as safe lock picking and decoding for'both curtained
and none curtained locking systems with and without false gates. The
course will cover the identificationof safe locks, bespoke tool use,
calibrationand covert opening techniques.

1,

Modular Courses

,,in L.
This 3 day course on John Falles PLPC systems will teach or rev
on how to utilise these tools to their maximum effect.
The course will train operators in the correct tool selection, pre
operation calibration, operational use, fault finding and ultimately
and reassembly of these highly effective lock opening systems.
The learners will be introducedor revised in all the techniques requiredfor
the operational use of the PLPC systems in order for them to be able to
operate them s m U y R a safe and covert manner during operations,*

Universal Dimple Pick I Decoder

Our 5 day course will train or revise operators in%e n
Universal Dimple pick.
This pick Idecoder enables the operator to pick open and then decode many
common pin lock dimple key systems found in use today across the globe.
Operators will be trained in the following:
1. Decoder strip and assembly
2. Tip selection
3. Calibration
a

n-A-..

a:.-.#

...

v. uperauurlrn uw

5. Fault finding
6. Foil kev imoressionina

Basic lmpressioning
The course objective is to produce a CME operator who can
successfully fabricate a working key to an unknown pin lock Iwafer
locking system in a safe and covert manner during operations.
;yf~~*~";Ssww*i*ii.$"Y?

.

=S

&&**:mz>

t * & - pi& % -,-

*-#?,*-'FN
S * -

JL*L WT......
Cr.7:1 :+:~~::t
.-$pc
r
a 9 2if 5 L > **gp
* : f z % ~ +.
p;*$Ts
*4:*3*
Advanced lmpressioning ;&$~~:&;p~~:p,~~'..P

The course objective is to produce a CME operator who ca
successfully apply advance impressioningtechniques in order
fabricate a working key to an unknown high security pin lock locking

L,

I

Basic Optical Decoding
The course objective is to produce a CME operator who can
successfully covertly utilise bespoke endoscopes for the purpose of
optically reconnoitfing and decoding lever lock systems up to and
including Non British Standard 5 Lever mortise locking systems

.,

..

..

......

Advanced Optical Decoding
The course objective is to produce a CME operator who can
sucsessfully covertly utilise bespoke endoscopes for the purpose of
optically reconnoitring and decoding primarily British Standard lever lock
systems but the techniques will also cover all lever lock systems found
globally.

gj3*
"

bespoke
Disc Lock copies decoder set
This has been designed to pick and decode all common types of disc
tumbler locks and comes with 2 decoders. Average decode time can be
between 1 - 5 mins.

Door Stop
Enables the covert team to secure themselves safely within a property
following entry.

Endc

!camera

5-

recorder -.E

"1,

-a

&;

e
U
;
"
k;.;

This provides a versatile viewing platform eslgneaor e c o v 3
operator. The images are recorded onto a SD card and has three si ,
buttons on the camera, one for light on I off, the second for record 1 stop
and the third to take a picture. If required the system can be ordered
with a separate wrist mounted viewer.

1

Helios 2 Endoscope light source
This powerful light source has a variable brightness facility to enable the
viewer to reduce or increase the illumination within the locking device
when viewed through the endoscope. Lightweight with a rechargeable
long lasting battery.

Endoscopes
We have a large selection of endoscopes which can be purchased
individually or as a scope set. These are purpose built and optimized for
use during CME tasks. Call for full selection data sheets.

36114E decoder
This decoder set allows you to decode this lock type accurately in under
5 mins. The set is simple to use, robust and operator friendly. During
trials 95% of 3G114E locks where decoded resulting in 1 key on the first
attempt.

Anchorlas decoder
Our Anchorlas decoder will pick open and decode this locking system.
Average opening and decode time is under 5 mins.

Abloy picks l decoders

Key Impressiening Clamp with light

We have 2 types of Abloy pick. The f i deals with the original "Classic"
D profile and all the subsequent copies of this lock found on safes
and w
o
d
r
s from We former Eastern W.The second is the prdWed
pick whi@h is supplied with me 2 mmUR profilm. This pick esul
be supplMwiah ahs p&Re @fyour cMce t@ match ygur geagr@?kaI
t(3caZipn. Tlme.pie@ am not ke AWy Diskbk Pm or Prote~.

Our imp~essioning
clamp has been designed to meet the covert
operator's needs. Wide jaw to hold many key types with an inbult light
s o w e t~ ibminate the key blade during apetation.

....h

W 5

I

Light Box

Tactical Motion Sensors (TMS)

This box enables the user to illuminate the key blank with 4 different
LED colour schemes and is fitted with an illuminationdimmer switch.
The box has a X 6 magnification aid and a rotational key "entrance"
which allows a 360 degree view of the key blank.

Erebus are proud to be the distribution agents for the TMS systems.
These systems are quick to deploy, robust and allow for the remote
monitoring of an approach route to you during a CME or Technical insert
operation. See website or contact us for details.

............................................ ............................................

l

Gerda Tytan ZX series decoder

i

This European security grade 7 lock has over 4 billion combinations and
is found in all countries across Europe and further afield. Our decode
system will identify the locks code and then with the makeup key
provided open the locking system.

............................................
Make up keys

These have been designed to eliminate the possibility of losing pieces
within the lock and to reduce any obvious forensic trace upon the levers.
The individual key pieces have been cut to the factory heights and are
held in place with a locking pin ensuring they cannot be dislodged. The
design of the pieces also ensures that if the correct code has been
loaded then the lock will open as there are no gaps between the pieces
into which levers or sliders could fall. All the individual key pieces are
numbered to ensure easy identificationshould the box be dropped.

RESEARCH A N D DEVELOPMENT
Erebus engages with many Military, Security and Governmental
agencies to undertake specific Research and Development that is
confidential, specific and technologically advanced We work with
our clients to develop services and tools to resolve scientific or
technological uncertainty with the aim of achieving an advance in
operational capability and problem resolution, these advances include
new or improved products, processes and services Research and
Development plays an important role in the innovation process. It results
in the technology that brings new products and services to the market
place. Innovation results in high quality jobs, successful operation,
better products and services and more efficient processes

............................................ EQUIPMENT HIRE
Mortice lock key turner set

Optimised for less weight but with maximum effect. The tools allow you
to operate a mortice key on the inside of a locked door from the outside.
The set comes with 2 blade throwers and a key recovery aid.

............................................
Pin Gauge

This has been designed to overcome the problems of escutcheon plates
on the internal side of the door. Each gauge arm has two sizes both
at opposite ends of the scale so not to be confused. The leading pin
gauges length is short enough to allow the larger end into the keyway
even if an escutcheon plate is fitted internally.

Erebus UK Ltd holds a limited number of lock decode systems and
make up keys available for hire on an operational basis. In order to for
you to hire the equipment you need to have received the appropriate
training in its use.
Please contact us for details on:

Tel: +44 (0) 1432 355337

Fax: +44 (0) 1432 371223

............................................ Mob: +44 (0) 7810 090 197

l

Spectrum Wireless Stethoscope set

1

1

l
l

l
l
I
I

The Spectrum Wireless Stethoscope set is the perfect aid to your CTR.
The set allows you to deploy 2 wireless listening devices against your
subject of interest which absorb sound waves through doors, windows
and plaster dividing walls to allow you to monitor the interior of your
building for movement prior to entry. The operational working range is in
the region of 50m from wireless stethoscope to receiver.

Mob: +44 (0) 7766 083 989

............................................
Tactical Gauss Meter
Our Tactical Gauss Meter has been designed to provide alarm defeat
specialists with a tactical and convenient solution to the detection of
magnetic fields.
The TGM provides the user with the key benefits of:
ccurate detection of a magnetic field
ccurate polarity indication of a magnetic field
Relative magnetic field magnitude
Compact water resistant design capable of one handed Iwrist
mounted operation.

3

..........................................
Tactical PIR Defeat Pole
The Tactical PIR defeat system will allow your alarm technicians to
covertly bypass PIR's f i e d within a secure space. The system has been
designed to be lightweight, portable, easy to use and simple to deploy

............................................
I

Double Bitted Lever lock decode system

1

Our double bitted lever lock decode system will open and decode all
common double bitted lever locks found across Europe. Once the
decoder is set for the lock in question entry can be expected in under
5 mins. The decoder set is supplied with 13 bespoke tension tools, full
spacer sets and 2 X make up keys.

i!

equipment and associated prices

UK Limited

