March 2011

The latest news and updates from ET/ Group

Index
Page 3

New and promising future

Editorial
Page 4 - S

Operate efficiently

Achieve results with Eli
Page 6

Voice analysis

Use voice os on identifier
Page 7

Search for evidence

Eli Content Seorch
Page 8

ETl's training facilities

Ensure a high return of investment
Page 8

ETI Events 2011

Meet Eli Group oround the globe

.- ... .
•

BAE SYSTEMS PURCHASE OF ETI COMPLETED
The ETI Group is pleased to announce that the acquisition from
BAE Systems has been successfully completed. The acquisition
reinforces BAE Systems position as premier global defence and
security provider.
The acquisition of ETI Group supports BAE Systems' strategy
to accelerate international growth, and follows the acquisition of
Detica and other companies to strengthen its security services
business in cyber and intelligence.
ETI will integrate with Detica, a successful company which
specialises in collecting , managing, and exploiting information
to reveal actionable intelligence. Detica uses this capability to
help government and commercial clients reveal intelligence,
maintain security, and strengthen resilience in today's complex
operating environment. Detica was acquired by BAE Systems
in 2008 and is headquartered in the UK. Detica has 1,750
employees.
ETI and Detica products complement each other, and the
combination of Detica and ETI will provide an extremely
attractive proposition to existing and potential new customers
worldwide.

THE NEXT STEP
ETI Group looks forward to present future opportunities to
our valued customers, and more about how ETI and Detica
products can help existing and new customers overcome the
complex challenges they face.

... ,,

.

lt is still too early in our cooperation to present specific plans
and new products. At this point in time, we can inform you that
existing contracts will not be affected by the change, and ETI
business and project management will continue . lt is important
to ETI that our trusted relationship with customers continues.
Consequently, ETI will continue as a separate security
cleared company, keeping our existing security measures and
procedures. Sensitive project information will not be shared with
any other company.

NEW PRODUCTS
This newsletter presents some of the important tools, ETI offers
today to investigating analysts to stay efficient even with large
amounts of IP data.
ETI solutions focus on our customers' needs to achieve results
based on dedicated selection, high quality processing, and
analysis tools which simplify the analyst's job. To extract the
maximum amount of intelligence from communication and other
data sources, monitoring solutions require a comprehensive
suite of tools and working with Detica will provide new
possibilities.
From 2011 , ETI and Detica will work together to enhance
existing capabilities and explore new opportunities to the benefit
of existing and potential new customers. A promising future lies
ahead of us, and the next ETI Group News will include a more
detailed update.

3

Achieve results with ETI
ETI customers have diverse requirements for their
monitoring solutions. However, common for all is the need
to empower the intelligence and case analysts with tools
that give them the best conditions for achieving results.
The analyst ultimately decides what is relevant or not.
Nevertheless, the ETI solution helps you achieve results
faster. The analyst can apply his or her case and domain
knowledge using available tools in the system and find
the information that could make or break the case.
This article explores some of the features that ETI currently
offers in the X-Stream solution, to assist the analyst in making
timely conclusions. lt also presents some of the roadmap
topics that ETI plans to implement in 2011 .

FIND RELEVANT INFORMATION
Versatile communication platforms provide the freedom to
communicate in multiple ways at any time. Each of us are
able to generate communication 24n using phone calls,
E-mails, Twits, Facebook, etc. The freedom to communicate
is constantly extended and sharing status between friends and
peers have become just as natural as picking up the phone.

words, or by applying a large variety of operators for more
advanced searches. The ETI search system gives the analyst
free hands to look for information, either in specific cases or
across cases, depending on legislation and permissions. A
search result can narrow down hundreds of interceptions to
a few. Search operators help the analyst in case that, e.g. the
spelling is unclear, or specific word combinations are required .

IDENTIFY PATTERNS
The ETI X-Stream system offers multiple approaches to
visualising structures. lt can be chronological using classical
event-based viewing . However, the list grows long very quickly.
By sorting the event list the analyst can quickly narrow down
the amount to specific communication types, dates, recipients,
etc. Consequently, the analyst can quickly find one relevant
event among hundreds, based on metadata and process it.
The analyst can identify patterns by simply organising
interceptions according to all metadata available in the list
and structure according to his or her own preferences, e.g.
sender/receiver information, time, location, protocol, etc.
Combinations of categories enables the analyst to quickly see:

To law enforcement and intelligence agencies, this represents
a challenge, as a lot of information is accumulated within a short
period of time. Analysing target communication often needs to
be done much faster than real time , and the analyst tasked
with monitoring target communication still has to produce
conclusions and input to ongoing investigations based on the
collected information. Therefore, the natural question is: how
can the monitoring solution help me form timely conclusions,
so that I do not have to read through or listen to everything in
my initial analysis phase?
ln addition , parts of intercepted information are sometimes
irrelevant to an investigation. Consequently, the next question
is; how do I weed out the irrelevant information and find the
valuable information to my case, and how quick can I find if?
The answer to both questions lies in the synergy between the
monitoring system and the analyst.

SEARCH FOR EVIDENCE
The outcome of an analysis relies on the analyst's ability to
identify the information that could be useful evidence in a case.
To help the analyst in his or her work, search functionality is
one of the fastest tools available, and the result quickly reduces
the amount of information that needs viewing or listening.
Searching in specific cases or across cases, enables the
analyst to apply his or her own domain or case knowledge
in the search for finding relevant information. This could
otherwise be a tedious procedure.
Searching can either be done mechanically in the ETI
X-Stream system by searching the entire database for indexed

4

(john@doe.com) (

27/1-2011

) ( 4 PM - 8 PM)

Ex ample.
Consequently, in a case including both web content, telephony,
etc. you can quickly single out a specific event occurring
between two parties at a specific point in time.
These parameters can be applied with a few mouse clicks and
provide valuable information about, e.g. a target's activity at
a certain point in time or illustrate when a target is most often
communicating , using e-mails.

PRIORITISE ACCORDING TO RELATIONS
Another powerful way of focusing on communication between
two parties, is relational display. The X-Stream system can
display cases, searches, filters, etc. in a relational grid, which
shows the analyst who has been communicating with whom .
By selecting the line between two people in the grid , these
events are presented to the analyst, who can then analyse
the content and prioritise them . Consequently, the analyst
can quickly single out important relations to the case and
deprioritise other connections.

---,,
'
--<:::

~

-- -----

,-

1

'

--ETI can provide you with the right tools to identify unknown communicators, find relevant information, and make timely conclusions.

ETI wants to add more dimensions to relations in the X-Stream
solution and plans to release temporal views in 2011 . This will
enable the analyst to get a visual presentation of how events
unfold over time.

SEARCH BASED ON VOICE
Another way of finding relevant information in large amounts
of irrelevant information is to analyse the characteristics of the
human voice. During 2011-2012 ETI will introduce new features
relating to voice analysis. These features will help the analyst
sort large amounts of content based on the characteristics of
a person's voice. Thus, the X-Stream system will speed up
the process of finding specific events and help the analyst in

identifying the presence of a specific speaker across multiple
recordings.

MULTl-TASK WHILE KEEPING FOCUS
Automated prioritisation during investigations is useful to
ensure that certain behaviour and activities are not missed.
For ongoing investigations the analyst may expect a certain
activity to occur which will confirm a suspicion. To facilitate
this task, ETI will extend our capabilities for live notification in
2011 , including rules which can be applied to trigger on certain
behaviour. The analyst will also be able to set different criteria
for notification method. ln brief, this empowers the analyst to
work on multiple tasks, without missing a prioritised activity.

---------------------------------,
1

Facilitates your work process: One of the most important features of ETl's products, is their ability to search for relevant information
in huge amounts of irrelevant information.

s

01ce ana ys1s
•

Use vo1ce os on identifier
EFFICIENT TOOLS

IDENTIFICATION AND FllTERING

During the investigation of organised crime and analysis of
complex criminal networks, massive volumes of voice streams
need to be analysed to identify target conversations that are
of vital importance. ldentifying the languages that are spoken,
the speaker's gender, and possible target voices, can be used
as a chain of parameters to minimise the number of voice
recordings that are to be processed.

Voice analysis tools have multiple functions, they:

With all this in mind, ETI has partnered with a leading voice
specialist. The goal with the partnership is to introduce voice
analysis tools as add-on features to the X-Stream solution .
Voice analysis can help sorting large amount of content
based on the characteristics of the person's voice and in other
scenarios.

•

Perform identification on a selected number of lines/
calls, aise for PBXs

•

ldentify a target no matter what device is used (prepaid
GSM, VolP, POTS, etc.)

•

Exclude/tag people who use the same phone line as
the target (filtering)

FIVE KEY ANALYSIS FEATURES
Voice technologies have many purposes; whether you would
like to identify a speaker, rule out people due to their gender,
identify which language they speak, or search for keywords.

NEW CHALLENGES - EFFECTIVE SOLUTIONS
ln a rapidly changing IP environment there are several
challenges to communications monitoring:
•
•
•
•

Multiple communication devices used (IMEI codes , etc.)
Different calier identifiers used (SIM cards, etc.)
Anonymous prepaid SIM cards
Technologies like VolP , etc.

Despite technical progress and multiple means of electronic
communication, one thing remains the same - the target's
voice. The task of identifying speakers based on their voice
patterns has normally been done by analyst who know the
target's voice from listening to existing target voice recordings.
Due to automatic speaker identification, this process can be
facilitated , and a significant number of man-heurs can be
saved. When using existing voice samples, the analyst will
make voiceprints of known speakers that will help identify them
in future communication .

1

Speaker Identification
Language and channel independent
speaker identification and speaker
verification

2

Gender Recognition
For call filtering and prioritisation separates voice transmissions

3

Language Identification
Can detect languages/dialects and
indicate possible non-native speakers

4

Keyword Spotting
To spot calls where pre-defined words
are said

5

Tone Detection
lnterprets DTMF codes and deletes
telephone tones that could
jeopardise the recognition results

VOICE ANALYSIS
Voice analysis tools allow lntercept Related Information (IRI),
i.e. source, destination, time, duration of a call , etc. to be
supported by information from speakers' voices and speech
content. When combined with IRI, intelligence technologies
allow for the creation of sophisticated queries that are able to
help identifying the communications that are most likely to be
relevant to an investigation.

M:.z
'

6

''
\

, ,,.

I

1·

' ... -

Mr.v
:

-,
....

I

Eli Content Search
TIMELY CONCLUSIONS

QUERY CONCEPT

A search feature is basic to any operation, where the analyst
wants to look for information across all the intercepted material
or across cases. Nevertheless, this basic feature improves the
analyst's ability to work efficiently, as it reduces the amount
of time it would otherwise take to find specific intercepts that
match certain criteria.

Despite the significant growth of 1P-based services, ETI Content
Search is a powerful tool which can handle large amounts of
IP data. This advanced full-text search tool searches for the
words in the Content Search Index Database. The resulting
hits are linked to the X-Stream Database, where the original
content is placed.

The analyst can use searches to find specific events based on
metadata, i.e. time, date, recipient, sender, etc. or the actual
content communicated . As the analyst learns more during an
investigation, he or she can apply new knowledge to already
intercepted communication .

ETI Content Search supports multiple search operators which
help the analyst in case that, e.g. the spelling is unclear, or
specific word combinations are required . This advanced
search functionality can narrow down hundreds of irrelevant
interceptions to a few relevant interceptions.

Supported operators*

ETI Content Search
ET/ Content Search is a powerful analytica/ addon too/ for ETl's lnvestigator application. lt enab/es
analysts to query intercepted data for important
keywords or word combinations.

•

AND (&}, OR (\}

•

ACCUM (.): One of the words must be present

•

WITHIN : Restrict the search to look within CONTENT and
METADATA or within RELATED MATERIAL

KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNOLOGY COMBINED
ln essence, ETI Content Search is an index engine, and this
is where case and domain knowledge and technology corne
hand in hand.
The analyst knows best which information is relevant for a
specific case, and based on the analyst's case and domain
knowledge, the ETI Content Search application enables the
analyst to search for words or word combinations, across all
indexed data. This is regardless of whether the text is found in
metadata, transcriptions, web pages, e-mails, chat sessions,
or any other type of data, including matched words or letters in
event files names (mail attachments or file transfers) .

•

NEAR (;) : Words must appear within 10 words of each other

•

NOT(-) : Words in front must be present, and the words
after must not be present

•

MINUS(-): Words in front must be present, and words after
should preferably not be present

•

FUZZY: lnclude words that are similarly spelled as the word
entered in brackets after

*This is an excerpt of supported operators. Please contact ETI for a complete list.

ETI Content Search optimises analysts' workflow by instantly
finding matches across all textual content possibly finding
connections between targets.

Search Results
SMS/MMS content & metadata

Peer2peer textual content

Volce metadata

Web content & metadata

- From
- To
- SMS content
- Attachments (MMS)
-etc.

- From
- To
- File til le
- etc.

- Called no.
- Call ing no.
- lime
- etc.

- Languages
-Domai n
- etc.

Chat content & metadata

Fax metadata

Vldeo metadata

E-mail content & metadata

- Participants
- Username
- Display name
- Chat messages
-etc.

- From
- To
- etc.

- From
-To
- File tille
- etc.

-From
- To
- E-mail body
- Attachments
- etc.

7

ETl's tailored personnel training
RETURN OF INVESTMENT

w

ETI offers a range of training courses that all have the same
objective - to help our customers get the most out of their
investment in ETI solutions and technology. Even the most
efficient tool is not better than the persan operating it. ETI
understands how skilled and well trained personnel contribute
to the results achieved by our customers.

8

TAILORED TRAINING

_J

~

~

::!!:
::!!:

1

_J

<(

~

~

U::

z

o

u

ETI has a history of developing and delivering training
experiences that are tailored to the specific customer system
and experience. ETI believes that it is not limited to the
knowledge about how to operate a specific tool that makes the
difference - it is the understanding of the underlying concepts
and technologies.
The ETI system consultants who perform the personnel training
will also deliver and implement the systems. This ensures
that the training provided is an exact match to the system
implemented for the user. Training is an integrated part of the
delivery.

BASIC TO ADVANCED LEVEL
Basic technology courses covering IP fundamentals, advanced
protocol understanding, and network infrastructure are
combined with specialised courses in third party products such
as Storage Management, Oracle Database Management, and
Microsoft Server Administration.

MODERN TRAINING FACILITIES
At ETI we offer access to modern training facilities including
all necessary technical prerequisites for a memorable learning
experience. The training can be conducted at the customer
premises or atone of the ETI offices around the world.

Eli

EVENTS

2011

EVENT

DATE

ISS WORLD AMERICAS, WASHINGTON

OC, us

11-1 J
ÜCTOBER 18-21
ÜCTOBER JJ-NOVEMBER J
ÜCTOBER

MILIPOL, PARIS, FRANCE

INTER POL GENERAL AssEMBLY {IGA), HANOI, VIETNAM
ISS WORLD APA(, KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA

DECEMBER

6-8

2011
2011
2011
2011

For further details, log onto our secure area at www.etiglobal.net
ETI AIS

ETI UK Ltd.

RPL Ltd.

ETI Engineering lnc.

ETI Connec!

ETI Connect

Bouet Moelleve1 3-5
P.O. Box 132
DK-9400 • Nr. Sundby
Den mark
Tel. +45 9632 3000
Fax +45 9632 3016
sales@etiglobal.net

38 St. Leonards Road
Eastboume
East Sussex• BN21 3UT
United K1ngdom
Tel.+44 (0)1323 745477
Fax +44 (0)1323 642353
sales@etiuk.com

14 Wheatstone Coun
Waterwells Business Park
Quedgeley • Gloucestershire
GL22AQ
United K1ngdom
Tel. +44 (0)1452 729940
Fax +44 (0)1452 729989
sales@rpl.co.uk

4219 Lafayette Center Drive
Chantilly
VA20151
USA
Tel. +1 .703.318.7100
Fax +1 703 318 7102
sales@et1us.com

4219 Lafayette Center Drive
Chantilly
VA 20151
USA
Tel. +1 703.788.6980
Fax +1 .703.788.6988
sales@eliconnect.net

Bouet Moellevej 3-S
PO Box 132
DK-9400 Nr. Sundby
Denmark
Tel. +45 9632 3000
Fax +45 9632 3016
europe@eticonnect.net

EXCELLENCE THROUGH SPECIALIZATION

