COGITO® Intelligence API

Powerful semantic software

To extract
1ntell1gence
from data
Cogito Intelligence API brings the power of semantic processing to
your application or analysis pipeline, analyzing documents, web
pages , tweets and any large data sets to enable Government,
Intelligence, Law Enforcement Agencies (LEA) and Corporate Security
customers to access and exploit some of their most strategic
sources of information.

USE COGITO®Intelligence API TO
• Add semantic features to your systems for
knowledge management and OSINT
• Analyze big data from COMINT
• Enrich your data processing pipeline with
social network analysis
• Extract and structure info from internai documents
• Save time and improve the efficiency of
your existing Intelligence & Collaboration platforms
Through a thorough understanding of meaning and context in the
processing of data, Cogito Intelligence API distinguishes between
the high volume and various streams of Intelligence information,
resolving ambiguities more effectively than keyword or statistics
based solutions.

Try the power of Cogito Intelligence API today
• Test the quality of our solution with our interactive Demo
• Free proof of concept testing
• Annual subscription and volume pricing available

www.intelligenceapi.com

COGITO® Intelligence API

web page

Automatic classification (over 1,000
different categories for Intelligence,
LEA & Corporate Security)

ltlftl11.lit

e-mail

Ex.tract, Transform &
Load unstructured
data in your databases

S'if

Document Tagging
(main concepts,
relevant phrases, etc.)

data from

social
network

.4...

text files

pdf. doc.

rtf. txt.
etc.

databases

oeee

11

ldentity resolution (based
on statistic and semantic
analysis of your knowledge)
Text Mining of entities
(dozens types of entities
related to intelligence domain)

Text Mining of specific
relations between entities

Key Features
• Content Categorization with specialized classification for Intelligence, LEA and Geography
• Entity and Relationships Extraction with a focus on the Intelligence domain (world leaders, terrorist
organizations, organized crime, unconventional weapons, geographic locations, etc.)
• Name Recognition, Normalization and ldentity Matching to support identification

Benefits
Backed by over a decade of intelligence sector experience, Cogito Intelligence API combines best of breed
analytics software in a scalable platform that brings efficiency and speed to the process of acquiring, managing
and sharing information.
Using advanced semantic processing, text mining, categorization and tagging, Cogito Intelligence API analyzes
content, extracts entities as well as the relationships between entities, and normalizes names in text to
support faster, more accurate evaluation of intelligence data. With Cogito Intelligence API you can:
•
•
•
•
•

Take advantage of the only semantic-based system with a knowledge domain dedicated to crime and intelligence
Access a regularly updated knowledge base
lntegrate semantic capabilities into your legacy technologies and analysis platforms to enhance their performance
Build new applications to improve your intelligence solutions for OSINT and COMINT
Manage large volumes of data with the accuracy and precision

For Partners & System lntegrators
•
•
•
•

Dedicated support for sales
Customer specific and on-premise implementations
Solid SLA and 2417 customer support
Free proof of concept testing available

www.intelligenceapi.com

~~

œhl'-

