FFT

Future Fibre Technologies™
Light years ahead in sensing and security

Key Benefits
»

Know 24/7 if threats from illegal data tapping
or interference occur and precisely where to
dispatch your security or maintenance staff to
minimize the risk of data loss and downtime.

»

A cost-effective solution as only one system is
required for single-ended networks up to 40km
or 25 miles long. Up to 80km or 50 miles in a
ring configuration. Subject to approval, Secure
Link 'M may be able to use your existing network
infrastructure and cable.

»

Lowest ongoing Total Cast of Ownership (TCO)
as there are no electronics or power in the field.
Secure Link'M is easy and economical to install
and there is no field maintenance.

"

Security staff can have faith in the system as
Secure Link 'M delivers the highest levels of
detection simultaneously with an extremely low
Nuisance Alarm Rate due to the intelligent event
discrimination and analysis utilized.

How Il Works
Simple to install and operate, the FFT Secure Link 'M system delivers truly outstanding levels of detection and location combined
with one of the lowest Nuisance Alarm Rates available. lt is maintenance free ; operating easily and reliably under a wide range
of operational and environmental conditions- day after day, year after year.
At the heart of the system is the intelligence built into the Secure Unk 'M Controller. A laser beam is transmitted along your existing fi ber
optic communications cable, and the returned signal is automatically monitored and analyzed for disturbances. This same signal is
then digitally processed to identify and remove nuisance alarms.
Existing fiber optic cable bundle

Star! senso r

End sensor

Simple and intuitive to use, FFT Secure Unk 'M delivers the precise
information your security staff need, combined with the ability to
interface and activate CClV systems, lighting, MODBUS, email,
plus a broad range of external devices and systems.
The area or zone where alarms are triggered along with the
GPS co-ordinates is instantly displayed onto a sitemap, and
the event is automatically logged into a secure database.
A signal can then be sent via Ethernet directly to a high level
command and contrai system, CClV camera system , mobile
device, email , or other external monitoring.

1OKey Reasons Why You Can Depend On FFT
Experience - Hundreds of major sites and thousands of kilometers of intrusion detection installed around the wor1d
lndependently Tested - FFT consistently delivers quality intrusion detection solutions, backed by
independent testing

Stability - The world's most experienced fiber optic security sensing company, operating since 1994

Value Proposition - Secure Link™ delivers outstanding price and performance benefits
Technology - FFT's R&D and product development programs ensure you always have the very latest and
most powerful technology, and systems are easily updated with the latest algorithms and signatures

Quality - Certified ISO 9001 :2008

The Right Products - Designed and developed by FFT specifically for military & industrial applications
Reliability - Ali FFT systems corne with a two year hardware and software warranty

Support - FFT has global support capability through its international offices
Avallability - FFT has partners located around the world

FFT Secure Link™ is the ultimate liber optic network intrusion detection and location system

AboutFFT
-

~":..,

14 0. HW

~ Oii ~

-

._ , m

-·-·-

i

-

IMUQQt0 5 >0;Ul1 f'llll

~

~---

C-°""-.:

llOOlonl

==-:~:.·.:,

-

-

G aHf.

.'
~

-

?•TrtrSS.WWMU.

Il"! "'""'--...-....

r;:;: ~-·-_

With hundreds of major site
installations in some of the most
hostile environments on the planet,
FFT has the proven real-world
experience to deliver highly reliable
yet cost-effective intrusion detection
and location solutions.
Future Fibre Technologies' business is
totally focused on the security industry.
FFT is the world leader in the design
and development offiber optic sensing
technologies for security applications

The operator interface to Secure Link™ is available in a range of
languages including English, Arabie, French, Russian, Spanish,
Japanese, and Chinese. Additional languages are easily added.

and the global technology of choice
for perimeter intrusion detection,
network protection, and
pipeline monitoring for TPI.

buried

FFT Secure Link™ Specifications

~

Fiber Optic Sensor

Can use existing dark single mode f bers if suitable, or FFT's custom direct burial single mode f ber optic sensor cable
Expected lite > 20 years

Sensing Configuration

Distributed sensor wrth a total optical path length of up to 80km or 50 miles of network in a ring conf guration protected
per controller. Total power budget of 25dB. Multiple systems can protect larger networks-up to thousands of miles

Location Accuracy

Within 25 meters or 75 feet anywhere along the network (or better)

Probability of Detection (POO)

Extremely high due to intelligent signal processing and analysis of disturbances

Nuisance Alarm Rate (NAR)

Minimal due to multi-parameter intelligent signal analysis, discarding non-intrusion and environmental events

Operating Temperature Range

FFT Sensor Gables: -22°C to + 70°C (-22°F to + 160°F)

Controller Oimensions/Weight

177mmH X 482mmW X 497mmD (7.0"H X 19.0"W X 19.6"0)
Weight 24kg (531bs), 19" rack mounted, 4U high

Electrical Specifications

Input voltage 110-240V AC , 50-60Hz, auto ranging, 160 watts consumption, redundant supplies.
Optional 48V OC available.
Note: Ali f eld installed components are passive and require no power, communications, or electronics on the network

System Interface

TCP/IP via FFT CAMS •M (Central Alarm Monitoring System) software
• Optional dry contacts
• Optional software development kit available to interface to a range of security management systems and devices
including Lenel, Milestone, Bosch VMS, Indigo Vision, EBI, P2000, C-Cure 8000, MODBUS PLC's, Peleo, and more

Alarm Monitoring

Real-time distributed monitoring-provides an intuitive map-based operator GUI, and interfaces to CCTV systems,
MODBUS, email systems, external SMS systems etc via TCP/IP

Warranty

Comprehensive two year warranty on hardware and software with ongoing warranty extension program
available for the lite of the product

Seasonal Calibration

No seasonal calibration or adjustments required

Zone Length & Number

lnf nitely variable 'Virtual Zones' are created in the FFT CAMS •M software to suit specif c site requirements

Contact FFT

EMAIL

AMERICAS

ASIA PACIFIC

EUROPE

MIDDLE EAST

Future Fibre Technologies (US) lnc.

Future Fibre Technologies Pty Ltd

Future Fibre Technologies Pty Ltd

800 West El Cami no Real, Suite 180
Mountain View CA 94040 USA

1O Hartnett Close
Mulgrave VIC 3170 Australia

TOLL FREE +1 (877) 650 8900
OUTSIDE USA + 1 (650) 903 2222

PH +6139590 3100

3000 Hillswood Drive
Hillswood Business Park, Cherisey
Surrey KT16 ORS, England

Future Fibre Technologies
MENA FZ-LLC

1

info@fftsecurity.com

WEB

1

www.fftsecurity.com

Building 11 Office G08
Dubai Internet City, UAE

1
Quality
ISO 9001
.

PH +44 (0)1932 895 317

FFT helps support the environment by using chlorine and acid free sustainable forestry paper in ils printed material

SAIOLOeAL

PH +971 4 434 5361
M B-SL-GOS/ 11

