,

Ethernet ComProbe

®

A Non-Intrusive, Aggregating and Portable Ethernet Tap

Power and Simplicity
There is power in simplicity and Frontline delivers both in their newest Ethernet tap: the
Ethernet ComProbe. Ethernet professionals know the potential headaches involved in troubleshooting network issues. Even just capturing packets, good and bad, across network
devices can be a chore. The analysis devices themselves become part of the network and
add complexity to the network analysis process.
Frontline’s Ethernet Comprobe Ethernet tap comes to the rescue. It is completely invisible
to the network, fully bi-directional, and all in a box the size of your palm!

Ethernet Comprobe Features:
l Captures and aggregates bi-directional
Ethernet data: No need to install and set up
multiple NIC cards or deal with separate capture files for each direction. All the data is in
one source.
lInvisible to the network: The Ethernet
ComProbe is completely invisible to the network. Information is sent to the analysis machine via USB. Does not interfere with auto
negotiation/speed or duplex settings.
l Guarantees Network Connectivity: The
“Permanent Network Link” feature ensures
that your network connection will never be
interrupted even if your analysis PC’s power
fails or the USB port is disconnected.

Invisibility and Bi-directional Captures
The Ethernet ComProbe captures and aggregates bi-directional Ethernet data and sends it
to the analysis PC via a single USB port. The Ethernet ComProbe is non-intrusive and
completely invisible to the network. The Ethernet ComProbe and the analysis PC do not
show up as a nodes on the network, but they see everything flowing in both directions
across the wire.
The Ethernet ComProbe tap captures both good and bad (or broken) Ethernet frames.
Regular network interface cards (NIC) discard bad frames. Without Frontline’s Ethernet
ComProbe you would not be able to see these broken frames.
Frontline’s Ethernet ComProbe tap uses USB power during data capture and there is no
need for an external power supply. The tap guarantees network connection even without
USB port power. It delivers comprehensive, bi-directional, aggregated Ethernet data for
ALL packets passing through the network.

l PoE Compatible: Forwards PoE power
to end devices.
l NetDecoderTM and EthertestTM software
compatible: You can fully leverage the
power of Frontline’s software analysis tools
using the Ethernet ComProbe
l Compatible with Wireshark: Also compatible with the free, open-source Wireshark
protocol analyzer.

Debug Communications Faster!

SM

Ethernet ComProbe

®

A Non-Intrusive, Aggregating and Portable Ethernet Tap

NetDecoderTM and EthertestTM
Highlights:
Frontline's NetDecoder and Ethertest analyzers monitor and provide detailed timing, data and messaging
information for Ethernet networks. To aid network diagnostics this information is organized in various
views and displays: Network View, Dashboard View,
Frame Display, Event Display, and Network Statisitics.

Using the Ethernet ComProbe is a Breeze
To use Frontline’s Ethernet ComProbe, simply install Frontline’s NetDecoder or Ethertest on
your analysis PC. The Frontline CD includes the drivers and the “Quick Start Guide” to
help you get started. Follow the simple set up process and you will be ready to go in a few
minutes.
To start capturing Ethernet traffic unplug one end of the Ethernet cable and plug it into the
Ethernet ComProbe. Use the supplied Ethernet cable to reconnect the Ethernet device to
the network and you are done. Then with the analysis PC connected via USB port you
can begin capturing live Ethernet data. It’s that simple.

Specifications

Network View
l Traffic flow at all Nodes

Performance

l Packets/Bytes Transmitted & Received
l Utilization/Broadcast Information
l IP/MAC Addresses
l Assign User Friendly Names for each Node

l

Supported Speeds: 10/100 Mbps Ethernet

l

Operating Systems: Windows XP, Vista, 7 (32-bit and 64-bit)

l

The performance of the monitoring depends upon the performance of the analysis PC
and the number of USB devices attached to the analysis PC.

l

The Ethernet ComProbe is transparent, non intrusive in the network and can not cause
any failure or mal-functioning.

l

Also without the USB port connected the network connectivity is guaranteed.

Connectors
l

Two 10/100 RJ45 Ports (network ports)

l

One USB 2.0 port (monitoring captured data)

l

If the other equipments are not auto MDI/MDIX the device must be connected with a
cross and a straight cable.

l

The USB cable must be a USB 2.0 certified cable. The cable should not exceed 5m.

l

CAT5e cable for the RJ45 ports

LED Indicators
Dashboard View
l Network Utilization Histogram
l Meters for Utilization, Bad Packets, Top

Talker

l Network Alarms for Unauthorized IP

Addresses/Applications

l Email Notification Option for Alarms

l

Front: Two for link/activity and Two for CRC error indications

l

Back: One for USB power

Physical Specifications
l

Dimensions: 0.96 x 4.09 x 2.17 inches (24.5 x 104 x 55.2 mm)

l

Weight: 4.93 ounces (140 g)

l

Power Consumption: 250mA in USB 2.0 High Speed and 150mA in USB 1.0 Full
Speed

l

Power Requirements: No External Power required; Powered by USB while capturing
data

Operating Conditions
l

Operating Temperature: 32°F to 131°F (0°C to 55 °C)

l

Storage Temperature: -4°F to 158°F (-20°C to 70 °C)

l

Humidity (non condensing): 10 to 90%

Certifications
l

RoHS Compliant and CE certified

PoE Compatibility
l

The tap forwards PoE power to the end devices

ELEXO
20 Rue de Billancourt
92100 Boulogne-Billancourt
Téléphone : 33 (0) 1 41 22 10 00
Télécopie : 33 (0) 1 41 22 10 01
Courriel : info@elexo.fr
TVA : FR00722063534

Debug Communications Faster!

SM

© Copyright 2010. Frontline Test Equipment, Inc. All rights reserved. Debug Communications Faster! is a service mark, and Frontline is registered
trademark of Frontline Test Equipment, Inc. The Bluetooth word mark and logos are registered trademarks owned by Bluetooth SIG, Inc. and any use of
such marks by Frontline is under license. Other trademarks and trade names are those of their respective owners.

