MCRCAPTOR
Given the increasing use of Internet, LEAs need a Monitoring Center capable to
effectively carry out IP interceptions, which nowadays represent a strategic tool to
provide a real added value to investigation activities.
AREA has developed the MCR CAPTOR family of probes to support LEAs in their LI
(Lawful Interception) activities requiring IP data acquisition; MCR Captor probes are
totally integrated in the MCR Voice g Data Monitoring Center,
MCR CAPTOR TARGET DEFINITION
MCR Captor enables LEAs to use different
approaches to IP data interception.

MCR Captor IF Probes installed in an 1SP
network allow to:
• acquire IP streams up to 10 Gbps
• apply real time filtering rules to extract
specified IP sessions
• forward captured content to MCR Server

Investigation Approach
This approach is usually based on the
monitoring of well known targets, previously
identified by means of investigation, in
order to collect evidences, discover social
relationships and find hints to create other
targets.
The triggering rule can be an IP address, a
Radius Login ID, an e-mail address, a chat
or a VolP ID or telephone number, etc.

MCR CAPTOR INTEGRATION
MCR Captor family of probes is fully
integrated with other MCR Voice and Data
Monitoring Center components, providing
complete Communication monitoring and
analysis functionalities.
Probes Management
Centralized installation provides GUI interface
to manage the whole system of MCR Captor
probes deployed in the network, configure
Targets, and monitor health status.
Content Inspection and Analysis
MCR Player provides extensive functionalities
to access CC and CDR of intercepted targets,
being them IP or Voice, offering advanced
features for decoding, presenting and filtering
of data. MCR Studio is the data-mining tools to
analyze targets social relationships and build
personalized analysis patterns.

Intelligence Approach
This approach is usually based on the
monitoring of communication content of
targets that are not identified yet. This kind
of interception applies in Crime Prevention
and Homeland Security, as it is useful both
to discover suspect behaviors and to identify
the subjects they belong to, by means of
content monitoring.
The target can be email subject, chat
content, generic word spotting in complete
stream, type of communication protocol,
etc..

Centralized Storage
MCR Server provides storage, security and antitampering signature on recorded data, accordingly
to specific country legislation requirements

Trigger Table
This table presents a summary describing
the most common target definition of MCR
Captor

TYPE OF TARGET

T A

R

G

E

T

DEFINED BY

Target oriented

IP address / Radius ID / E-mail address / Chat ID /
VolP ID / Telephone number / URL / DNS Queries /... /

Content Oriented

Email (Subject and body) / Webmail (Subject and body) /
Instant Messaging / Social Network Chat / Web Pages
Generic Word Spotting in full stream / ..../

Communication Type Oriented
(Identification of protocols)

Mail / Webmail / HTTP / VolP / Chat
Communication Port I Encrypted Protocols (Skype,
HTTPS...) / Peer 2 Peer / /

MCA

I

UR APPLICATION SCENAHLOS

Example 1: Pirate Web Site
An example is the monitoring of a pirate web
site traffic. LEAs requirement was to trace
every access to a pirate website, and collect
all the traffic generated by those users, to
discriminate relevant targets from occasional
visitors.
The constraint in this process is the capability
to automatically target the web site which was
not always on-line and whose IF address was
dynamic.
Establishing a trigger monitoring DNS traffic
allowed to identify those IP addresses
accessing the specific web site: those IF
Addresses were addressed as targets, from
that point on, capturing entire traffic generated,
allowing LEAs to identify relevant users, and
obtain their ID (email, chat...)
Example 2: Word Spotting (protocol based)
MCR Captor can process a whole aggregated
IF stream and extract the contents (such as
HTTP pages or e-mails) in which specified
words are detected. Moreover, in order to
focus on specific communications channel,
the combination of more triggers is extremely
important. In this experience LEAs, needed
to search specific words, but to limit false
positive matches, traffic analyzed was
restricted to Instant Messaging, Webmail and
Mail protocols.

FLEXIBILITY AND SCALABILITY
MCR Captor can be easily adaptea to all
the changes that can occur in number of
monitored targets, protocols and ISP network
modifications.
MCR Captor can support interception
activities carried out simultaneously by
different LEAs thanks to the capability to
manage a huge number of concurrent
interception instances.
MCR CAPTOR MAIN FEATURES
System reliability
MCR adopts an advanced automatic backup
policy and a RAID 5 mechanism is configured
on probes to avoid data loss. Moreover the
handover capability is redounded in order to
avoid that a single fault can affect the whole
system recording capacity.
Security
MCR Captor is configured to be protected
from any virus threats. malware in general
and hackers attacks.
On probes, servers and workstations a toplevel anti-virus software is installed and a
firewall infrastructure is properly configured
according to the latest policies issued by
authoritative IT security companies and
communities.

INTEROPERABILITY, STANDARD AND
INTEGRATION INTO TARGET NETWORKS
MCR Captor enables LEAs to monitor IF
contents through any kind of fixed and mobile
data networks: dial-up, xDSL or fiber (fixed
networks), and WLAN. GPRS. EDGE or UMTS
(mobile networks). MCR Captor probes are
configured to fit the network technology
adopted by Telco operators (i.e. GB Ethernet.
STM, PoS) and can capture high bit rate IF
streams (up to 10 Gbps) through SPAN ports or
by means of tapping devices.
AREA monitoring system is compliant to
emerging LI standards such as ETSI (TS 101
671, TS 102 232) and CALEA. yet MCR Captor
is widely adaptable to fit Vendor-specific or

AREA

