ti

GAMMA

GilAOUP INTERNATIONAL.

GAMMA
NEWSLETTER 01/2011

FINFISHER
IT INTRUSION

FIN FLY

NEW TRAINING COURSES

FinFly is a set of products that is used for easy
local network and remote infection of target
systems. lts main features include on-thefly infection of executable and screensaver
downloads, triggering software updates for
well known software and infection through
visited websites . After infection, the target
system is fully accessible to Law Enforcement
and Intelligence Agencies.

As part of our FinFisher Training Program,
we have created a set of new cutting -edge
IT Intrusion courses to caver more tapies
requested by our clients over the past few
months.

FinFly USB
The FinFly USB provides an easy-to-use and
reliable way of installing Remote Monitoring
Solutions on computer systems when physical
access is possible.
FinFly LAN
FinFly LAN was developed to covertly deploy
the Remote Monitoring Solution on target
systems in Local Area Networks (Wired and
Wireless/802.11 ). lt is able to infect Files that are
downloaded by the Target on-the-fly, or infect
the Target by sending fake Software Updates for
popular Software.
Fin Fly Web
Fin Fly Web is designed to help Law Enforcement
and Intelligence Agencies to covertly install
FinSpy on Target Systems through Websites
which install the software by using the Webbrowser module functionalities .
The product can generate a wide-range of
attack codes that can be implemented into any
given Website and which will infect the Target
System when the website is visited.
FinFly ISP
ln order to achieve greater performance and
enhanced reliability, the Fin Fly ISP product has
been completely redesigned and developed
from scratch, which resulted in major changes:
• The software has been rewritten from
scratch and offers a more intuitive Interface

PRACTICAL SOFTWARE EXPLOITATION
Outline: This course offers practical training
on using exploits for IT Intrusion purposes, e.g.
using the latest Adobe Acrobat exploits to hide
Fin Spy inside PDF files, as well as using software
vulnerabilities to break into secure computer
networks, and more.
Duration: 5 days (Basic) or 10 days (Full)
Pre-Requirements:

•
•
•

Basic Software Development Knowledge
Basic Windows/Linux Knowledge
Basic IT Intrusion Knowledge

PRACTICAL WEB APPLICATION

EXP LO ITATI 0 N
Outline: This course focuses on Web Application
Security and shows many different ways how to
analyze them for security issues, and also to use
them to get remote access to web-servers.
Du ration: 5 days (Basic) or 10 days (Full)
Pre-Requirements:

•

Basic Web Application Knowledge

PRACTICAL PENETRATION TESTING
Outline: This course covers a wide-range
of penetration testing examples, which are
conducted through several practical examples.
Duration: 5 days (Basic) or 10 days (Full)
Pre-Requirements:

•

Basic IT Intrusion Course

and more flexibilitv

•

The existing hardware has been replaced by
high performance servers with programmable
network cards

GAMMA NEWSLETTER Ql/2011

