nNnsHERTM: GOVERNMENTAL IT IN!RUI"N
AND REMOTE MONITORING 5#$!%&5

FINFIEHERTM
W W W. ' ( & & ( 6 R " U ) . " " &

! N ! R U 8 " N

FIN FI ! ERTM: GOVERNMENTAL IT INTRUSION
AND REMOTE MONITORING s o u n i o N S

EinFisher
Gamma provides complementary solutions, products and advanced
training capabilities t o Government end-users w h o are seeking
world class offensive techniques for information gathering from
suspects and targets.
"in"ish#$
#$ combines trendsetting IT Investigation methods into one
comprehensive IT Intrusion portfolio. This gives tine Law Enforcement
Agencies and Intelligence Community a vast array of intrusion capabilities from starting up an Intrusion department to providing world-class
solutions and training for enhancing existing resources.

1. Tactical IT Intrusion Portfolio
2. Remote Monitoring & Infection solutions
3. IT Intrusion Training Institute

WHY INTRUSION !"#$N%u"s?
In today's high-tech cyber environment computers, mobile phones or
P0A5 are being used to transmit and supply information that could
potentially threaten national security.
The increase of cyber crime both through terrorism, intimidation and
industrial espionage are constantly on the rise, and illegal activities are
aided by available technologies such as:
• Encryption technologies:
• & ! ! s connections (55L)
• Instant Messaging (skype, simpLite, Blackberry Messenger, etc.)
• s/MIME, PGP
•'('/5
'(' )*' via 5SL++L5
'('/5
• VPN Connections
• Global mobility of devices and targets
• Anonymity (Anonymizing proxies, Webmail accounts, etc.)

Conventional Interception technologies can no longer cope with
these challenges. Government Agencies require n e w missioncritical intelligence technologies to enhance existing capabilities
which, to date, are insufficient within most government product
portfolios.

Gamma addresses ongoing developments i n t h e I T Intrusion f i e l d w i t h
solutions t o enhance t h e capabilities
of o u r clients. Easy t o use high-end

The Remote Monitoring and Infection

solutions and techniques complement
the intelligence community's knowbow

solutions are used to access target systems
giving full access to stored information

enabling it to address relevant Intrusion

with the ability t o take control o f the

challenges on a tactical level.

target systems functions to the point of
capturing encrypted data and communications. In combination with enhanced
remote infection methods, the Govern-

The IT Intrusion Training Program includes
courses o n both, products supplied as
well as practical IT Intrusion methods and

IT Intrusion Training Program

ment Agency will have the capability to
remotely infect target systems.

techniques. This program transfers years
of knowledge and experience t o endusers, thus maximizing their capabilities in
this field.

• Finintrusion Kit
• Fi!US" suite
• EinEireWire

Finspy• Finspy
Finspy Mobile
FinFly • FinFly US"

• Basic & Advanced Intrusion
• Wireless Intrusion
• Practical Exploitation

• FinFly LAN

• Web Application Penetration

• FinFly Web

• Custom IT Intrusion Training &

• FinFly is

Consulting

!"##"$%&!U' C o m p a n y Profile
Gamma Group, established in 1990, provides advanced integrated
technical surveillance and monitoring solutions to national and state
intelligence departments and l a w enforcement agencies. Gamma
Group is a European-based company with its headquarters in the
United Kingdom and subsidiary offices in Munich, Dubai, Johannesburg, Jakarta and Singapore.
Gamma Group's software development headquarters i n Munich,
run by world-class IT Intrusion experts, has integrated the ultimate
solution in remote IT monitoring —$in$ish()
() — into the monitoring
portfolio, providing Government Agencies with advanced missioncritical IT intelligence capabilities.

Our main fields of operation are:
•Advanced IT intrusion and remote monitoring
• Communications monitoring (tactical & strategic)
• Tactical intelligence and surveillance solutions
• Mobile command and surveillance vehicles
• Specialist intelligence Ops training
• Mission-critical integrated surveillance solutions
Gamma Group — the right partner:
• 20 years experience working with government intelligence agencies
• Long-term and stable partner
• Entirely self-financed, independent and privately-owned company
• Existing global after-sales & support infrastructure
• Dedicated and focused research and development

THE E N D

•
G A
G A M M A G R O U P

W W W • G ! " " ! # R 0 U $ • % % "

M M A INTERNATIONAL
U n i t e d Kingdom
Tel: + 4 4 - 1 2 6 4 - 3 3 2 4 11
Fax: +44 - 1264- 332 422
info@gammagroup.coni

