GSM Analyzer
Analyze multiple GSM links
across Gs, Abis, A, Ls, Lb,
Lp, Up, B, C, D, and more


Supports MTP2, MTP3, SCCP,
BSSMAP, MM, CC, SMS,
BTSM, RR etc.

The Global System for Mobile communications is a digital cellular communications system.
GSM standards are used to provide the interface between the various entities in GSM network.
Supports National and
International Variants


Decodes RR Layer Nontransparent Messages


Transmit Recorded Trace
Files


Summary, Detail, Hex-dump,
Statistic and Call-trace views


Search & Filtering capabilities


Real-time & Offline analysis


Statistics Based on Framecount, Byte-count etc


GSM networks presently operates in three different frequency ranges:
• GSM 900 (operates in the 900 MHz frequency range and is the most common in Europe
and rest of the world),
• GSM 1800 or DCS 1800 (operates in the 1800 MHz frequency range and is found in a
rapidly-increasing number of countries including France, Germany, Switzerland, the UK,
and Russia)
• PCS 1900 or DCS 1900 - the only frequency used in the United States and Canada for
GSM).
Between these the only differences, so far seem to be the power levels, frequency & some small
changes in signaling
GL’s GSM Analyzer is used to analyze GSM protocols, a switching and signaling
telecommunication protocol between MSC & BSC, BSC & BTS, MSC & HLR, MSC & VLR,
etc. and operates on T1 & E1 channels. GL Communications supports the following types of
GSM analyzers:
• Real-time GSM Analyzer (Pre-requisites: GL's field proven E1 or T1 internal cards or USB
Laptop E1 or T1 external units, required licenses and Windows 2000/XP Operating
System).
• Offline GSM Analyzers (Pre-requisites: Hardware Dongles and Windows 2000/XP
Operating System).
Main Features
• Interfaces supported - A, A-bis, B, C, D, E, F, H, J, Gs, Up, Ls, Lb, and Lp.
• Summary View displays MTP2, MTP3 information, GSM Message types, information
about various channels used during the call, frequency hopping etc.
• Detailed View displays easy to understand decodes of user-selected frame.
• Decoding of many RR layer non-transparent messages such as “System Information”,
“Measurement Result”, “Immediate Assignment” etc.
• Statistics view displays statistics based on frame count, byte count, frames/sec, bytes/sec
etc for the entire captured data.
• Call trace view displays call statistics such as number of active/completed calls, duration of
completed calls, Type of Call (e.g. SMS/Location), IMSI/TMSI associated with each call.
• Call Detail Recording feature includes data link groups that help in defining the direction
of the calls in a given network.
• Recorded trace files can be played back using HDLC playback option.
• Simultaneous decoding of multiple GSM Links on the different T1/E1 channels.
• Exports detailed and summary information to a comma delimited file for subsequent import
into a database or spreadsheet.
• Remote monitoring capability using GL's Network Surveillance System.
For more details, please visit our web page http://www.gl.com/gsmanalyzer.html.

818 West Diamond Avenue - Third Floor. Gaithersburg, MD 20878 z (V) 301-670-4784 (F) 301-670-9187
Web Page Address: http://www.gl.com/ z E-Mail Address: gl-info@gl.com

Summary, Detail and Hexdump Views
The analyzer displays summary, detail, call trace, statistics, and
hex dump views in different panes. The summary pane displays
Dev#, Time Slot, Frame#, Time, Length, Error, Summary view
displays Dev#, Time Slot, Frame #, Time, Length, Error, BSN,
BIB, FSN, FIB, Status Field, SLC, DPC, OPC, SCCP Message,
and so on. User can select a frame in summary view to analyze
and decode each frame in the detail view. The Hex dump view
displays the frame information in HEX and ASCII format.

Real-time and Offline Analysis
Users can capture and analyze GSM frames in real-time and
record all or filtered traffic into a trace file.
The recorded trace file can then be analyzed offline and
exported to ASCII file, or printed. Real-time capturing requires
user to specify timeslots, bit inversion, octet bit reversion,
user/network side, and data transmission rate. Recorded trace
file can be opened later for offline analysis. and can then
transmit using the HDLC File Playback application.

Filtering and Search
Users can record all or filtered traffic into a trace file. Filtering
and search capability adds a powerful feature to the GSM
analyzer. This feature can isolate required frames from captured
frames in real-time, as well as offline. Users can specify custom
values for frame length to filter frames during real-time capture.
The frames can also be filtered after completion of capture
according to Data Link, MTP2, MTP3, SCCP, LAPD, BTSM,
RR, MM and more. Similarly, search capability helps user to
search for a particular frame based on specific search criteria.
Call Trace & Statistics View
Call trace defining important call specific parameters like Call
ID, Call disposition, Call duration, OPC/DPC, Call type (pointto-point/point-to-multipoint etc) calculated based on signaling
messages, are displayed in Call Trace view. Various statistics
can be obtained in statistics view to study the performance and
trend in the GSM network based on different parameters e.g.
Use Type, Statistic type and various patterns.
Buyers Guide:
XX150 - Real-time GSM Protocol Analyzer (T1 or E1)
OLV150 - Offline GSM Analyzer
Related Software
XX090 - HDLC Capture and Playback Software (T1 or E1)
XX120 - Real time SS7 Analysis Software (T1 or E1)
XX153 - TRAU Analysis & Emulation Software
XX155 - GPRS Analysis Software
Related Hardware
UTE001 - Portable USB based Dual T1 or E1 Laptop Analyzer

HDT001/HDE001 - HD T1 or E1 PCI Cards
*Specifications and features subject to change without notice.

818 West Diamond Avenue - Third Floor. Gaithersburg, MD 20878 z (V) 301-670-4784 (F) 301-670-9187
Web Page Address: http://www.gl.com/ z E-Mail Address: gl-info@gl.com

