• Central Intelligence system
• Capacity to handle several captors
• Data Fusion
• Scalable architecture
• Capacity to display and store billions of
records
• Analysis tools, Business Intelligence,
Consolidated dashboards
• Multilanguage support

VERSATILE AND FLEXIBLE INTELLIGENCE SYSTEM
CEREBRO is a core technology designed to mon-

• Enter your targeting criteria for a live surveillance of suspects.

itor and analyze in real time communications

• Analyze billing data to understand relation-

on very high data rate networks. This turn-key

ships and behaviour of suspected people or

system is capable of handling active and passive

go back in the past to find relevant informa-

interception devices. CEREBRO is abl e to inter-

tion in several billions of recorded conversa-

act with several probes, including SMS, GSM

tions.

calls, billing data, emails, voice over IP (VoIP)
conversations, webmail, chat sessions, social

TURNKEY SOLUTION

networks ...

Based on your requirements, we build a custom-made solution. A dedicated team of engi-

CEREBRO is entirely scalable and can work out

neers and operational people will install, con-

with any size of interception flow.

figure and tune up this system for your benefits.

LIVE ANALYSIS, DATA RETENTION, TIME MACHINE

Advanced Middle East Syst ems follow and sup-

Through the same core technology, intelligence

port its customers to help them maximizing

analysts and Law Enforcement Agencies can

operational features offered by this technology.

perform two different types of data analysis:

ADVANCED
MIDDLE

EAST

SYSTEMS

COMMUNICATION ANALYSIS (CEREBRO-TGT)
For active or passive interception, with decentralized or full -centralized architecture, CEREBRO core
technology is the cornerstone of your future monitoring center.
Through an ergonomic graphical user interface, investigators and analysts are able to view and search
into intercepted communications. The presentation is unified and independant of the type of sensor.
The data fusion is done automatically in the CEREBRO core technology.
At any time, the investigators can follow live the activity of their target with advanced targeting criteria (email addresses, phone numbers, keywords, etc.).

SEARCH IN THE PAST (CEREBRO-DRS)
CEREBRO is designed to store several billions of reco rd s - metadata and/ or communication contents. Thanks to dedicated tools, investigators can go back in the past to find relevant information.
Investigators can query the archive based on any technical identifiers to recover all its past activities,
independently on the media used.
Optionally, the search in the past can be improved with a google-like approach. With this option,
investigators access their archive through a non relational database allowing advanced features like
semantic analysis, faceted search, social network representations, consolidated dashboards, etc.

SMART MODULES
To be able to analyze efficiently the huge tsunami of incoming information, we can provide a wide
range of smart advanced modules to help the analysts. We can add in our CEREBRO systems smart
modules like Voice to Text Transcription, automatic translation, geolocation of calls, semantic analysis,
topic spotting, speaker biometric recognition ...

-

--~--~-

-

-

/" -

--~.&.

- i-- -

-_-.::.,...a, .-- rJ.-w
-v-

ADVANCED
MIDDLE

EAST

SYSTEMS
P.O. BOX : 500439
Internet City
Duba"i - U.A.E.
Mobile: +971 56 72 44 190
Email: contact@advancedsystems.ae
All specificat ions p resented i n this d ocument are subject to modificat ions without notice and are not contractua l.

