conference & convention

enabling the next generation of networks & services

3D-MEMS PHOTONIC CROSS-CONNECT IN SUBMARINE CABLE
LANDING SITES
Kelvin Chau and R.W. Lundy
Email: zindel@glimmerglass.com
Glimmerglass Networks, Inc. 26142 Eden Landing Road, Hayward, CA 94545, USA

Abstract
Undersea fiber-optic cables provide the vast majority of intercontinental Internet
bandwidth. With the tremendous traffic growth on these cables, outages caused by cable
breaks and equipment failures are unacceptable. Furthermore, traditional protection schemes
do not protect against simultaneous catastrophic failures. Through the use of photonic crossconnects, a submarine cable operator has successfully deployed a solution capable of remotely
creating, monitoring and restoring the light paths as needed. This paper will discuss the
deployment of 3D-MEMS photonic cross-connects at submarine cable landing sites. With this
approach, the operator has improved network availability and manageability, reduced OPEX,
and enhanced network upgradability.
1. INTRODUCTION
Over the past several years, global
undersea cable operators have faced severe
pressure on cost due to protracted price
erosion and network overbuild while
confronting increasing commitments on
service quality. At the same time, these
networks have been forced to keep pace
with the bandwidth growth on terrestrial
networks. Most undersea cables installed
today support hundreds of thousands, or
even millions, of simultaneous voice calls
and internet traffic due to the adoption of
DWDM technology on these networks.
This technology allows multiple highspeed channels, i.e., 10 Gbits/sec, using
different wavelengths, i.e., 40 colors of
light, to be transmitted over a single fiber.
With this high volume of traffic running
over a single fiber, and the increasing
amount of information terminated on each
of the many transponders, any fiber break
or equipment failure can result in
significant down time for the customer(s).
Therefore, it is critical to ensure service
continuity to avoid costly Service Level
Agreement (SLA) penalties and maintain
customer satisfaction.
Copyright © 2010 SubOptic

Since the first transoceanic cables were
laid, there have been cable breaks and
equipment failures. As redundant fiber
optic networks have been deployed, the
number of cable breaks and equipment
failures has lessened, but the time to repair
is still unacceptably long and, due to traffic
growth, the impact of a service outage is
exponentially greater.
In 2006, a submarine cable operator
realized that they had a growing problem at
their submarine cable landing sites. They
were experiencing extended outages at
these sites resulting from wavelength
transponder failures. Later that same year,
an earthquake in Taiwan raised awareness
broadly among operators of the affects of
any service disruption whether it is natural
or terrorist related1. Photonic crossconnects have emerged as a viable solution
to enhancing the survivability of
communications at undersea landing sites.
In the case of wavelength transponder
failures, maintenance windows are usually
narrow and require advanced scheduling
Page 1 of 6

conference & convention

since cable landing sites are generally in
remote locations. As a result, once a fault
occurs, service restoration could take hours
to a day. In this scenario, the operator had
to significantly increase maintenance costs
to avoid severe SLA penalties. The
maintenance costs were primarily due to a
dramatic increase in support calls to
affected sites. Moreover, these calls had to
be performed by highly experienced
technicians. The failing equipment was
frequently the wet side line cards, whose
replacement was expensive, specialized,
and problematic. Not only was it difficult
to schedule a technician who was qualified
to replace them, but in some instances the
replacement cards would fail as well. This
often required the technician to make a
return trip with another line card.
Ultimately, the submarine cable operator
successfully addressed these problems by
using photonic cross-connects to improve
network availability and reduce operational
costs in the process. The resulting benefit
is a network which is easier to manage and
better positioned for future upgrades.
This paper will discuss Three Dimensional
Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems (3DMEMS) based photonic cross-connect
deployment for wavelength restoration,
central monitoring and management,
simplified equipment upgrades, and other
photonic switching applications
at
submarine cable landing sites. The benefits
of these applications are increased
availability and reduced OPEX at these
facilities.
2. PHOTONIC CROSS-CONNECT
Photonic cross-connects began being
deployed in 2002. Carriers and undersea
operators recognized that the ability of the
photonic cross-connect to transparently
switch optical signals from one fiber to
another without conversion to the electrical
domain has major benefits for a wide range
of applications in the fiber optic industry.
Furthermore, MEMS based photonic crossCopyright © 2010 SubOptic

enabling the next generation of networks & services

connects have the following benefits over
electronic cross-connects: lower cost,
smaller size, lower heat and power,
protocol and line rate transparency, and
higher efficiency.
This dramatic reduction in power, size and
heat for a system capable of remotely
switching
optical
signals
meets
requirements at undersea landing sites.
This translates into a reduced footprint and
lower operational cost by eliminating the
need for additional power-generation and
distribution equipment such as batteries,
rectifiers, diesel generators and monthly
maintenance.
In terms of technological enablers, 3DMEMS architecture has emerged as the
economically viable approach for building
transparent and scalable systems. 3DMEMS fabrication is performed by tools
and techniques similar to those used to
manufacture widely adopted integrated
circuits (IC). As a result, the technology
has quickly found its way into a variety of
commercial,
defense,
and
medical
applications. The primary advantage of
3D-MEMS technology is that it allows
many small but complex elements to be
precisely built on a wafer through
lithography,
etching,
and
masking
processes. Through batch fabrication and
minimization of materials, 3D-MEMSbased products have become mass
manufacturable and cost-effective. These
micro devices are light-weight and require
very low power while providing high
performance.
3D-MEMS photonic cross-connect systems
based on beam steering mirrors have been
explored by many researchers2-3. These
switches allow many optical channels to be
switched in a relatively small amount of
space, utilizing micro mirrors to switch or
reflect an optical signal from one fiber to
another dependent on the relative angle of
the micro mirror, as shown in Figure 1.

Page 2 of 6

enabling the next generation of networks & services

conference & convention

Figure 1
system.

Simple

fiber-to-fiber

relay

Manual fiber connection is not only
operationally costly and labor-intensive it
also increases opportunities for human
errors. Alternatively, photonic crossconnects enable operators to provision,
monitor, and reconfigure optical light paths
remotely, which reduces provisioning
intervals and lowers capital and operational
expenditures.
Undersea cable operators have begun
taking advantage of photonic crossconnects to offer better service resiliency
and flexibility while reducing operational
costs. Photonic cross-connects allow
operators to expand their legacy ring-based
undersea networks into a logical,
intelligent, optical mesh network4. The
ability of photonic cross-connects to
rapidly and remotely manage light paths
without regard for data format, line rate or
wavelength count leads to many benefits.
3. FAULT DETECTION/ISOLATION
One of the major problems facing network
operators today is the limited ability they
have to monitor the physical layer in order
to recognize or predict a failure and/or to
diagnose a problem once it has been
recognized5-6. Some photonic crossconnects inherently detect Loss of Light
because they continuously monitor optical
power to optimize the strength of the
connection6. In addition, the availability of
extra ports on a full photonic cross-connect
offers the ability to perform a wide range
of remote diagnostics.
Copyright © 2010 SubOptic

To enable remote diagnostics, test
equipment could be attached to a crossconnect. If a particular light path is
experiencing a problem, that light path can
be switched to a dedicated test port on the
photonic cross-connect for additional
analysis. For non-intrusive monitoring, a
photonic cross-connect can be equipped
with dedicated input splitters. As shown in
Figure
2,
using
splitters
with
asymmetrical taps, i.e. 90/10, enables the
operator to check the signal when desired
without needing to disrupt traffic by
breaking the connection in the act of
switching. This solution limits the impact
on the planning of the optical power
budget.

Figure 2 Test equipment attached to a
cross-connect enables remote diagnosis.
Whether doing proactive or reactive
maintenance once a fault has been detected,
the remote operator can instantly loopback
suspect lines and/or switch to a port
connected to specialized test equipment
required for remote diagnostics. This saves
hours of time sending technicians with
patch cables and test equipment to remote
sites. The ability to perform these
diagnostics remotely means that an
appropriate service team can be sent with a
clearer idea of the nature of the problem.
Since most problems can now be
circumvented remotely, any follow up
activity can be scheduled as a routine
service call rather than requiring an
emergency response.
4. LIGHT PATH RESTORATION
In the event a fault is detected, either Loss
of Light detected by the photonic crossPage 3 of 6

conference & convention

connect or signal degradation detected by
other test equipment attached to the crossconnect, a remote operator can remotely
switch the affected light path around the
failed transponder to a backup transponder.
Once this operation has been performed on
each side of the submarine link, the traffic
is restored.
Shown in Figure 3 is a wavelength
Protection and Restoration scheme based
around a photonic cross-connect. Once this
operation has been performed on each side
of the submarine link, the traffic is restored.
As DWDM signals arrive at termination
points, they become colorless. In effect, the
photonic cross-connect allows the operator
to perform a wavelength conversion
restricted to the problem link.

Figure 3 Wavelength Protection and
restoration scheme based around a
photonic cross-connect.

enabling the next generation of networks & services

network failures8. As a result, undersea
cable operators are interested in the
potential of 3D-MEMS photonic crossconnect systems to restore services in the
event of multiple failures. For example, if a
network experiences a fiber cut on the
primary light path, traditional transport
protection schemes would switch to a
protection light path. Using a photonic
cross-connect, the operator can switch
around one or both failures either to
unused fibers, or temporarily to protection
fibers reserved for unaffected light paths.
The following example further illustrates
this point. In this case, a photonic crossconnect could be placed at the meeting
points of five submarine line segments.
The network configuration is in the form of
an ‘H’ with two bearers north and south
plus a cross link. The logical configuration
of the switches would mimic the diagram
in Figure 4. In the event of a dual segment
failure (diagonally opposite segments) the
light path could be switched across the
interlinking segment and onto the
remaining bearers in an ‘S’ configuration.
Under normal circumstances, a dual
segment failure would cause a catastrophic
service outage; however, with the photonic
cross-connect in place, the failures can
easily, quickly, and remotely be routed
around.

It is important to note that this restoration
could be performed automatically through
a system-initiated protection switch or
manually through a software command that
can be issued remotely. Thus, what would
have been an outage lasting hours and
requiring an emergency response can be
cured in minutes or less.
5. PROTECTION AGAINST
MULTIPLE FAILURES
While traditional transport protection
schemes adequately protect against a single
failure, they do not generally provide a
solution for routing around multiple
Copyright © 2010 SubOptic

Page 4 of 6

conference & convention

enabling the next generation of networks & services

creation of a single point of failure. Once
the upgrade is complete, the photonic
cross-connect can switch the light path
back across the original network segment.

Figure 4 The network configuration in the
form of an ‘H’: normal operation, and
restoration with photonic cross-connects
after multiple failures.
6. NETWORK SCALABILITY
Terrestrial network operators have seen the
benefit of using photonic cross-connects to
enhance network upgradeability. This is
even more critical for undersea operators
due to the operational complexity of
performing upgrades. Photonic crossconnects are especially well suited for this
environment since most of the core
network of the submarine system will only
require wavelength granularity as the
tributaries are multiplexed to the highspeed interface. The result is a very simple
optical layer switching fabric at the node of
submarine networks.
Photonic cross-connects have two strong
advantages as ‘future proof’ equipment for
growing networks.
First, they are
transparent to line rate and format,
allowing them to accept and manage
current and future transmission rates and
protocols. Second, they are very good at
integrating with the currently installed
network equipment while supporting future
upgrades. To further illustrate this second
point, Figure 5 shows traditional network
protection during a segment upgrade
versus using a photonic cross-connect to
temporarily switch light paths around the
congested segment while the upgrade is
performed. As opposed to the traditional
model, which uses the protect path while
upgrading the working path, using a
photonic cross-connect eliminates the
Copyright © 2010 SubOptic

Figure 5 Traditional network protection
during a segment upgrade versus
protection with a photonic cross-connect.
7. CONCLUSION
Photonic cross-connects enable undersea
cable operators to build more resilient and
flexible
networks
while
reducing
operational expenditures. Specifically,
undersea cable operators can deploy
photonic cross-connects to achieve the
following benefits for cable operators and
their customers:
Reduced length of outages and
reduced SLA penalties
Reduced frequency of emergency
service events by converting to
scheduled events
Improved long-term performance
monitoring of undersea circuits
Remote monitoring of network
health at the physical layer without
disrupting traffic
Improved availability and scalability

Page 5 of 6

conference & convention

Data rate and format transparency,
simplifying
future
network
equipment upgrades
In today’s high speed networks, customers
are in need of near-zero downtime, relying
on highly reliable infrastructures to sustain
and grow their revenues. As global
undersea networks continue to grow with
increasing traffic and higher data rates, alloptical switching technology has become a
critical element of any survivable optical
network. In this paper, we presented how
an intelligent photonic cross-connect could
improve scalability, lower costs, and most
importantly avoid costly network failures.
In addition, photonic cross-connects enable
remote, centralized monitoring and
management, allowing carriers to reduce
operational costs and respond more quickly
to service requests. In conclusion, photonic
cross-connects simplify operation and
reduce human errors, which have a direct
impact on operator revenues.

enabling the next generation of networks & services

[5] H. T. Mouftah and P. Ho, “Optical
Networks:
Architecture
and
Survivability,” Springer, 2002.
[6] O. Mayada, R. Nilchiani, and A.
Mostashari, “Measuring the Resilience
of
the
Trans-Oceanic
Telecommunication Cable System,”
IEEE System Journal, Vol. 3, No. 3,
pp. 295- 303, 2009
[7] W. C. Dickson, B. P. Staker, G.
Campbell, and W.C. Banyai, “64x64
3D-MEMS switch control system with
robustness
to
MEMS
resonant
frequency variation and pointing drift,
”OFC2004 Technical Digest, ThQ5,
2004
[8] C. Ou et al, “Subpath Protection for
Scalability and Fast Recovery in
Optical WDM Mesh Networks,” IEEE
J. on Sel. Areas in Comm. 22, pp.
1859–1875, 2004.

8. REFERENCES
[1] R. Bannon, D. Burnett, “Submarine
Cable Infrastructure Defense Against
Terrorist Aggression,” OCEANS 2003.
Proceedings, Vol. 4, pp. 1850 – 1861.
2003.
[2] D.J. Bishop, C.R. Giles, and G.P.
Austin, “The Lucent Lambda router:
MEMS Technology of the Future Here
Today,”
IEEE
Communications
Magazine, Vol. 40, pp. 75-79, 2003.
[3] B. Fernandez, P. Staker, W. E. Owens,
L.P. Muray, J.P. Spallas and W.C.
Banyai, “Modular MEMS Design and
Fabrication for an 80 x 80 Transparent
Optical Cross-Connect Switch,” Proc.
of SPIE, Vol. 5604, pp. 208-217, 2004.
[4] S. Yamamoto, “Technologies required
for the future submarine cable
networks,” Proc. SPIE, Vol. 4872, pp.
pp.103-111, 2002.
Copyright © 2010 SubOptic

Page 6 of 6

