Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS
Unified Lawful Interception Suite

The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS adds lawful interception functions
to Alcatel-Lucent products, adapting their internal interfaces to the
standard lawful interception interfaces of law enforcement agency
monitoring facilities.

Address Lawful
Interception Requirements
Lawful interception of telecommunications is a capability
that allows authorized organizations or law enforcement
agencies (LEAs) to detect and intercept the use of telecommunications facilities by criminal or terrorist organizations.
All telecommunications operators are obliged to comply
with government regulations to enable the interception
of any type of call, and most countries have adopted
global lawful interception requirements and standards.
However, with the convergence of voice and data and
the rapid transformation of operator networks to IP,
the lawful interception of voice and data communications
is becoming increasingly challenging for both service
providers and LEAs.
EXTRACT OF THE COUNCIL RESOLUTION
OF JANUARY 17, 1995 ON THE LAWFUL
INTERCEPTION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS
(EUROPEAN UNION)

The Council of The European Union…. Has Adopted
This Resolution:
1.The Council notes that the requirements of Member
States to enable them to conduct the lawful interception
of telecommunications, annexed to this Resolution
(“the requirements”), constitute an important summary
of the needs of the competent authorities for the
technical implementation of legally authorized
interception in modern telecommunications systems.
2.The Council considers that the aforementioned
Requirements should be taken into account in the definition and implementation of measures which may affect
the legally authorized interception of telecommunications
and requests Member States to call upon the Ministers
responsible for telecommunications to support this view
and to cooperate with the Ministers responsible for
Justice and Home Affairs with the aim of implementing
the Requirements in relation to network operators and
service providers.

2

Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS

In addition, most solutions available today are fragmented and, therefore, do not provide a complete lawful
interception capability across all networking domains,
functions and interfaces.
Complicating the issue further is the fact that government authorities/LEAs and network operators have
different objectives, activities, constraints and liabilities
and require different systems and approaches for lawful
interception.
Government authorities/LEAs require turnkey solutions
that adhere to relevant standards and operating procedures. They are not concerned with the underlying network
topologies that are in a state of constant evolution.
For network operators, lawful interception is non-core
business. Therefore, they require systems that can be
installed and maintained with minimal cost and with no
impact to the performance or reliability of their existing
network and services.

At the same time, lawful interception requires a very
close cooperation between government authorities/LEAs
and network operators.
Alcatel-Lucent addresses the needs of government
authorities/LEAs and network operators with the
Alcatel-Lucent 1357 Unified Lawful Interception
Suite™ (ULIS).

Apply a Comprehensive Solution
The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS is a complete communications interception solution. It provides government
authorities/LEAs and network operators with an integrated
system for transparently intercepting and extracting real
time information from vast amounts of voice, data and
multimedia communications over virtually any type of
network.
With the ability to intercept any type of communications
traffic and monitor selected subscribers in real time, the
Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS provides LEAs with:
• Intercept-related information, which is the signaling
information that provides the source and destination
of a call, as well as supplementary data, such as date
and time of events and the interception reference.
The information can also convey intercepted short
message service (SMS) and user-to-user service contents.
• Content of communication, which includes voice,
fax, data, video or message contents carried on a
speech channel, or information exchanged on a high
speed Internet access link.
The interception system is not detectable by the parties
involved in an intercepted communication, and it does
not affect the basic and supplementary services of
intercepted subscribers.

Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS

3

Choose Standalone or Turnkey
There are three primary elements required within the
public network to achieve lawful interception:
• Internal intercept function, which is located within
the network nodes. It is responsible for generating
the intercept-related information and contents of
communications.
• Mediation function, which clearly delineates the
public network from law enforcement monitoring
facilities (LEMF). It communicates with the internal
intercept function using internal network interfaces,
which can be proprietary. It also communicates to one
or more LEMFs through locally standardized handover
interfaces (i.e., HI2 and HI3)
• Administration function, which manages orders for
interception in the public network. It serves interception orders, delivers the data and content to the LEA,
and communicates with the internal intercept function
and mediation function through an internal network
interface.

These elements must feed into a LEMF, which records
and processes intercepted calls on the LEA side.
As a standalone offering, the Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS
performs the interception mediation function between an
operator’s network and LEAs. Interception mediation is
required to translate internal intercept-related information/
call content to the standard external formats required by
LEMF. The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS is compliant with
lawful interception standards worldwide.
The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS can also be part of a
turnkey lawful interception solution designed to provide
umbrella management. Umbrella management is used for
multi-vendor mediation functions and allows a network
operator or a LEA to centralize lawful interception management. This can be used by a government that requires
umbrella management of all telecom operators within a
country, or a large telecom operator who requires centralized management of all infrastructure and equipment,
as well as third party LEMF and monitoring centers.

The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS is the lawful interception
solution for the following Alcatel-Lucent products:
CLASSIC FIXED AND MOBILE

Alcatel-Lucent 1000 E10
Alcatel-Lucent 1000 S12
Alcatel-Lucent 5ESS
Alcatel-Lucent 1000 MSC-E10
NGN/IMS FIXED AND MOBILE

Alcatel-Lucent 5020 MGC-12
Alcatel-Lucent 5060 MGC-10
Alcatel-Lucent 5060 WCS
Alcatel-Lucent 5020 CSC
Alcatel-Lucent 5450 ISC
IP FIXED AND MOBILE

Alcatel-Lucent 7450, 7750, 7710 Service Routers
Alcatel-Lucent 5750 SSC
Alcatel-Lucent 7500 SGSN

4

Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS

Integrate End-to-End
Components
The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS system has two main
components (Figure 1):
• A unique interception management center (IMC),
which handles the lawful interception administration
function and:
¬ Centralizes the management of all lawful interception orders, particularly the warrants activation or
deactivation via internal graphical user interface
(GUI) or external access on the HI1 interface
¬ Concentrates all intercept-related information (IRI)
received from the lawful interception gateways (LIG)
and transmits it to the LEMF using the HI2 interface
¬ Provides single management across all network domains
• The distributed lawful interception gateways (LIGs),
which:
¬ Manage IRI and content of communication (CC)
mediation functions
¬ Collect and deliver IRI and CC according to the
network topology of the LEMF or monitoring centers.

Figure 1. The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS in Fixed and Mobile Networks

Network Operator
Classic
Domain
GSM,
UMTS CS

LEA Network
PSTN
LIG

LIG
PSTN
LIG
NGN
Domain

LEMF
HI1

GSM,
UMTS CS

1357 ULIS Network

LIG

IMC

HI2
HI3

Warrant Management
IRI Collection
CC Collection

LIG
GPRS,
UMTS PS
LIG

LIG

Routers

IMS
IP
Domain

Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS

5

The Alcatel-Lucent 1357
ULIS offers standard handover interfaces (HI1, HI2 and
HI3) toward the LEA/LEMF,
according to:
• 3GPP specifications
33.106, 33.107 and
33.108
• ETSI ES 201.671 Edition 2
• ETSI TS 102.232-1,
102.232-3, 102.232-5
• SORM standard, China
The Alcatel-Lucent 1357
ULIS adapts the internal
interfaces of Alcatel-Lucent
products to the international
standards on the LEMF side.
Other standards an be
adapted upon request.

The number of LIGs depends on the
network size and the targeted traffic flows.
Depending on the CC delivery type
toward the LEMF or monitoring center,
the LIG architecture can be circuit
switched (LIG CS) or IP-based (LIG IP).
Intercepted communications is recorded
and processed by the LEMF. If the LEMF
is not an Alcatel-Lucent product, it can
be provided by Alcatel-Lucent as part of
a complete integrated solution.
Transmission of intercepted call contents
from the LIG CS to the LEMF is generally done through the telephone network.
The LIG CS establishes the call over a
primary rate access (PRA) or an ISUP
interface, known as the HI3 interface.
In a packet scenario (GPRS, UMTS PS,
IP or IMS/TISPAN), the links between
the LIG IP and the LEMF take place on
an IP network.

Transmission of IRI from the IMC to the
LEMF uses either an existing or a dedicated
data network over an HI2 interface. There
is also an optional HI1 interface that gives
external terminals access to the IMC. This
interface allows LEA operators to activate
and deactivate interception on a target,
but not to manage the interception network (i.e., they may not manage LEAs
or interception areas or create an LEMF).
This option is useful for avoiding the
double keying of intercept data by
operators on the IMC and in the LEMF.

Leverage a
Field-Proven Solution
The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS has been
deployed in more than 70 countries
worldwide. It is a field-proven and tested
system compatible with the products of
the main LEMF providers.

Figure 2. The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS in an ETSI/3GPP Network

Network Operator Domain

LEA Domain
IMC
LEA
Administration
Function

Intercept-Related
Information (IRI)

Network
Internal
Functions

IRI Mediation
Function

Content of
Communication (CC)
IIF

CC Mediation
Function

LIG-IP, LIG-CS
Internal
Interfaces INI

6

Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS

HI1

HI2

HI3

External
Interfaces HI

LEMF

With this system, service providers
and government authorities/LEAs
can create a clear partition between
the world of telecommunications
operations and the world of law and
justice. The Alcatel-Lucent 1357
ULIS protects the interests of both
parties. It does not allow telecommunication operators to see the data
and commands of LEA operators,
and it does not allow LEA operators
to interfere in network operations,
administration and maintenance.
The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS is
a flexible solution to lawful interception that enables mediation of

a variety of evolving interfaces on
all network elements with standard
LEA interfaces.
Similarly, the Alcatel-Lucent 1357
ULIS minimizes the impact on network elements when there is a
change in standards.
The Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS is
scalable from one LIG to tens of
LIGs, with one IMC managing several
different networks when required. It
permits up to 16 LEAs to share the
same IMC and to monitor the same
targets independently.

PARTNER WITH ALCATEL-LUCENT
With the Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS, service providers and LEAs
benefit from the experience and expertise Alcatel-Lucent has
developed in all areas of telecommunications.
Alcatel-Lucent has set the pace for change in communications
networking technologies. We continue to innovate by combining
what is possible in science and technology with what is required
by the markets.
With one of the largest global R&D capabilities in the communications industry, as well as our renowned Bell Labs and Research
& Innovation research communities, we help bring our customers
to the forefront of technical innovation every day.

No other vendor in the industry can match this depth and record
of research and innovation.
Beyond research, Alcatel-Lucent recognizes that it takes the right
combination of customer services, applications and infrastructure to
successfully apply technical innovations that enable new business
models that improve customer relationships, increase employee
productivity and are more adaptive to changing markets.
As a proven telecom partner, we bring our extensive experience
in delivering large, multi-vendor, multi-technology solutions to
organizations around the globe.

Through our research facilities in 14 different countries we have
invested more than $3.6 billion in R&D and secured more than
25,000 patents.

Alcatel-Lucent’s Professional Services team is the most experienced
and knowledgeable services partner in the industry, supporting
the top 30 service providers as well as enterprise and government
customers in over 130 countries.

In addition, Alcatel-Lucent also includes the celebrated Bell Labs,
whose record for innovation is unmatched and includes development of transformational technologies such as the transistor, the
laser, the solar cell, HDTV, and remote laptop security solutions
(even when the laptop is turned off).

Our OSS/BSS integration solution, professional services expertise
and proven capabilities cover multiple areas, including consulting,
end-to-end solution design and integration, deployment, migration,
program management, and operation support services that
encompass the entire network and service life cycle.

Alcatel-Lucent 1357 ULIS

7

www.alcatel-lucent.com Alcatel, Lucent, Alcatel-Lucent and the Alcatel-Lucent logo
are trademarks of Alcatel-Lucent. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
The information presented is subject to change without notice. Alcatel-Lucent assumes no responsibility
for inaccuracies contained herein. © 2008 Alcatel-Lucent. All rights reserved. CAR2888080201 (04)

