J\

Environment mapping for live operations
Arithmetica

Main applications:
• Advanced situational
awareness

LIDAR and point clouds
Laser Imaging and Detection Ranging (UDAR) scanning is widely used
to survey 30 objects and environments with pinpoint accuracy. This
high-speed technology creates data sets called point clouds consisting
of hundreds of millions of data points. Point clouds look great until you
get close up - then they dissolve before your eyes.

• Anti-terrorism operations

From point cloud to CAD model in seconds...

• Line-of-site analysis

An impressive tool for military, defence and security seNices,
Arithmetica's breakthrough software converts point clouds to high
fidelity vector models in seconds, in a single step, automatically,

without manual intervention. It works with the output from any scanner
platform, whether mobile, terrestrial or airborne, as well as with point
clouds obtained from other sources, for example photogrammetry.
Our software stops point clouds from disappearing by rendering roofs,
walls, cars and any other obscuring objects as opaque surfaces,
allowing you to build up a visual awareness of an environment and its
hazards long before you enter it.
And because our software does this automatically and. quite literally in
seconds, it can be used for planning of counter terrorism operations
where every second counts.

About Arithmetica
Arithmetica creates new software technologies for clients anywhere in
the world. We thrive on soMng challenging and computationally
intractable real-world problems. We offer in-depth knowledge of
advanced ideas at the boundaries of computer science, physics,
applied mathematics and statistics, plus the experience and
programming expertise required to translate theoretical concepts into
practical, easy to use applications.

Why is Arithmetica's software
different?
Hitherto the conversion of point clouds into 30
models and plans has been a manual process - that
is time consuming, costly and complex. But now
Arithmetica have developed a unique solution that
transforms this process, eliminating manual
intervention and producing high fidelity vector
models in a fraction of the time.
Our software uses advanced techniques at the
interface of mathematical optimization and
computational statistics to automatically and rapidly
convert point clouds into accurate vector models
consisting of lines and plane polygons.
Building on this unique capability, our software will
also fully automate extraction of features from point
cloud data, allowing the intelligent recognition,
measurement and cataloguing of objects and built
environments, and other forms of extracted
knowledge.

' ' LI DAR provides a critical
tool for live operations for
military, defence and security
services, allowing line of sight
analysis and enabling fast,
accurate assessment of an
environment and its hazards
before personnel are
deployed. ' '
Point cloud to 30 modeling software
• Rapid conversion of point cloud data to vector
models
• Conversion for use in CAD environments

• Easy to use

• Fast processing and visualization of large data sets
on portable devices
• Rapid conversion of data from both terrestrial and
mobile UDAR scanning systems

Unique integration with spherical vision
systems and equipment
• Integration with our 360 and spherical video
solutions
• Integration with maps,
satellite views, building
layouts and p lans

Company info
Arithmetica develop ground
breaking software solutions to
solve real world scientific,
medical and engineering
problems.
Arithmetica Ltd
Unit 1A Shepperton Studios
Studios Road, Shepperton
Greater London. TW17000
+44(0)208 783 1972

www.arithmetica.com

Arithmetica's point cloud conversion software has many applications in defence and security.
Regular demonstrations can be seen at Stand N35.
Contact:Dr George Skrobanski Mobile: 078 5224 9402

