1. Introduction
The Eagle Eye - IP tap is a passive IP network
application platform for lawful interception and
network monitoring. Designed to be used in
distributed surveillance environments, the Eagle
Eye - IP tap is ideal for monitoring various networks –
from small business network to large complex
networks.

EAGLE EYE
IP TAP

The Eagle Eye - IP tap enables to perform inspection and classification of network packets with
subsequent decoding of application-level protocols
without necessity of preliminary filtration at switches,
routers or other probes. This capability eliminates
any performance impact to the existing infrastructure
and provides enhanced interception capabilities.
The Eagle Eye - IP tap offers flexible interception
options, including the ability to deliver entire data
stream, level 7 application's data stream, IRI/PenRegister information, IPDR/CDR records, and/or key
session events, that enable the Eagle Eye - IP tap to
provide a full range of interception solutions and data
retention.
The Eagle Eye - IP tap also incorporates sophisticated reconstruction logic to deliver only pertinent
information when intercepting complex applications
such as webmail and IM/chat, reducing processing
required by the monitoring and analytic systems.

1

2. Architecture
The Eagle Eye - IP tap consists of three basic software-hardware modules:
IP Surveillance Module is intended for direct filtering and analysis of
network packets. Internal host processors and multi-core packet inspection
accelerators of this module make it possible to monitor multiple 1Gbps and
10Gbps Ethernet links at true real wire-speed with full deep application protocol
inspection (DAPI) and deep packet inspection (DPI) capabilities.
Storage and Intelligent Analysis Module is intended for a long-term storage
of intercepted information, for accessing recorded information, analysis of data
related to operators authentication and authorization.
Operations Support System (OSS) is intended for administration,
management, and collection of information on health status.
Eagle Eye - IP tap

IP Surveillance Module
HW Packet
Processor
1-10Gbs
IP packets

Protocol
Processor

Storage and Intelligent Analysis
Storage
Adapters

Application
Server

HW
interfaces

DPI Engine
16-32x Core
Processor

WWW request

Provisioning
and Controlling

Data Base
Customer API

OSS software package
WWW request

2

The Eagle Eye - IP tap can be supplied to the Customer in three types of configuration:
A standalone solution for monitoring small networks with 10/100/1000 Mbs
bandwidth (from 1 to 4 ports). In this configuration the Eagle Eye - IP tap includes a
software for recording and intelligent analysis of the captured traffic that is to be installed
on the same server-based platform, where data interception is performed.
A distributed solution for monitoring enterprise networks with 1-10Gbs bandwidth
(4 ports or more). IP Surveillance Module and Storage and Intelligent Analysis Module are
installed on dedicated platforms. Additionally, several IP Surveillance Modules can interact
with one Storage and Intelligent Analysis Module that enables flexibly increase capacity of
the system in general.
IP probe devices as an integral part of the MC that ensures processing of network
traffic. In this configuration the role of the Storage and Intelligent Analysis Module is
performed by the Eagle Eye MC software.
3. Features
Passive mode Interception.
Operation in 100Mb/1Gb/10Gb networks.
Interception of network traffic from 1 to 4 channels in a standalone solution.
Processing of unlimited quantity of channels in a distributed version.
Processing of IPv4 and IPv6 protocols.
Identifying and filtering of layer-7 traffic with using integrated real-time DPI engine.
Intercepting based on application content specified by a set of simple strings,
complex strings, regular expression, or pattern/signature database.
Intercepting of specified subscribers enabled by the system's capability to process
the RADIUS and DHCP protocols.
Extraction of application layer metadata and full reconstruction of content.
Full generation of IPDR and CDR for all network flows and events.
Intercepting and decoding of GRE and GTP tunneling protocols.
Storing of captured content and metadata in a local DB and its transfer to a remote
monitoring center.
Web-based graphical user interface.

3

Intercepted
Protocols

Metadata and Criteria for
Subject Filtering

Intercepted
Content

Discovery and
Interception of
SMTP, POP3, and
IMAP-based Email

Targets can be specified as
localname@domainname,
localname (at any domain),
@domainname (any localname
on this domain), @ (all email).

Full email with attachments, just the email
text, summary information, or the email
session events

Additionally, targets can be
specified as: to (including cc and
bcc), from, or both, email
subject, attachment type,
keyword in email body
VoIP

VoIP calls are discovered and
captured based on the analysis
of SIP and H.323 signaling
protocols.

Voice content and
information about
occurrence of signaling
events

Targets can be speci?ed as:
user@host, user@IPv4/IPv6
address, phone_number@host,
host, phone number@IPv4/
I P v 6 , t e l e p h o n e _ n u m b e r,
hostname, or IPv4/IPv6 address
HTTP

4

The HTTP traffic is intercepted Web-pages, images,
based on URL, HTTP header, or email, and etc.
IPv4/IPv6 address. Additionally,
webmails (non encrypted Gmail,
Hotmail, Yahoo and etc.) can be
intercepted based on the email
address or the webmail domain

Intercepted
Protocols
IM/chat services

FTP

Metadata and Criteria for
Subject Filtering

Intercepted
Content

IM/chat sessions are discovered
and intercepted based on the
subject's username. The
IM/chat session, including
advanced features such as
audio, video, and file sharing
are captured and decoded with
the pertinent information
extracted and delivered

Presence information,
text messages, video,
files, summary information, and events

IPv4/IPv6 address, username

Files, summary information, and events

Layer 4 IP Traffic
Discovery and
Interception

IP traffic is discovered and Delivered traffic can be
captured based on IPv4 or IPv6 all packets, packet
address, layer-4ports, and summary, or IPDR
application classifications. IP
addresses can be static
IPv4/IPv6 addresses or subnets,
DHCP-assigned via MAC
address, option 82 (remote ID,
circuit id or both) or RADIUS
login (username or NAS port
ID). Layer-4 ports can be
specified be as singular, a range,
a set, or a 'not' condition

Layer 2 Traffic
Discovery and
Interception

Discovery and Intercept of the
following Data Link Layer
protocols: Ethernet, ARP and
etc.

All packets, packet
summary and events

5

4. Benefits
Possibility to create small standalone systems for interception in IP
networks and distributed system for
interception and analysis of information
in 2G(GPRS)/3G/ISP networks.
Possibility to create both target
centric interception systems and
systems for massive interception of
information in IP networks.
Processing of metadata and
information on network events enabled
by Complex Event Processing technology.
Definition of triggers for combinations of network events with an
opportunity to start business processes.
Integration into the Customer's
business structure enabled by ESB and
BPEL technology.
Integration into the Customer's
existing interception systems by using
API.

6

EAGLE EYE - IP TAP
6, Kostomarovskaya str.
61002 Kharkov, Ukraine
Tel./Fax: +38 (057) 766-13-63
e-mail: post@altron.ua
http://www.altron.ua

