1. Introduction
Worldwide explosion of communication technologies
creates a significant challenge for law enforcement
agencies, national security organizations and
enterprise security responsible for battling various
forms of crime and terrorism.

EAGLE EYE
MC

The Eagle Eye Monitoring Center is a next
generation product designed for Law Enforcement
Agencies to carry out lawful surveillance activities. The
Monitoring Center makes it possible to manage audio,
video and data interception in a unified manner as well
as telephone Call Detail Records and IP Detail Records.
The Monitoring Center is an integrated solution that
makes it possible to handle various interception data
coming from various networks including PSTN, ISDN,
GSM, GPRS, UMTS, IP, Wi-Fi, etc. This assures data
security, integrity and cost reduction because there is
no necessity to create new monitoring centres in case
when any new protocol has been developed.
The Eagle Eye Monitoring Center does not affect or
create any indication to the subscriber or the network
that the interception is taking place. Additionally, the
monitoring center is completely protected from any
unauthorized access to the system, either from external
or internal sources. An integrated Operation Support
System (OSS) allows the system administrator to
receive system alarms and health status automatically.

1

The Eagle Eye Monitoring Center modularity makes it possible to deploy Law Enforcement
Monitoring Facilities (with capability to build a small monitoring centre on one server up to
building fully functional data centre) according to customers' requirements and
communication infrastructure.
2. Architecture
The Eagle Eye Monitoring Center consists of the following main components:
Mediation Front End.
Data Center for collecting and managing intercepted information.
Operator's Workstation for processing and carrying out comprehensive
analysis of intercepted information.
Administrator's Workstation for management and administration.
GSM/UMTS

Wireless

ISP

International
Exchange

PSTN

Mediation
Font End
Eagle Eye-WiFi

Eagle Eye-IP tap

Data Center

WAN

2
Local Operator Terminal

Remote Operator Terminal

Mediation Front End.
The Mediation Front End is an equipment that consists of various interface modules
ensuring communication with various telecommunication networks for receiving the
intercepted traffic.
The Front End complies with the latest Lawful Interception standards to allow target
assignment, data capturing, buffering, delivery, and distribution of information to different
destinations. Supported networks and services include different wireless and wire line
implementations such as GSM, UMTS, CDMA, WiMAX, VoIP, PSTN, NGN, etc.
Data Center.
The Data Center is the heart of the monitoring center that receives content of audio, video,
data communication, the Interception Related Information from the Front-Ends and stores
them in the centralized DB. The Eagle Eye Monitoring Center is designed for intercepting,
mediating, storing and analyzing traditional and next generation communications. This
capability is enabled by use of state-of-the-art computer technology and software
architecture based on the latest standards.
Operator's Workstation.
The Operator's workstation provides a unified graphic interface for different types of data:
To view lists of communications (Voice, Fax, Internet, etc.) of each target.
To playback and analyze telephone calls in real time mode and off line mode (fixed
mobile and UMTS video calls).
To view Internet communications in real time mode and off-line mode.
To analyze CDR and IPDR files.
To carry out link analysis: to create connectivity diagrams, timeline charts, etc.

3

Main View of the Operator's Workstation

4

3. Features and Benefits
Features

Benefits

Supported networks

PSTN/2G/3G, IP
networks, NGN

Unified solution for capturing and
analysing information irrespective of technologies applied in
communication networks

Supported interfaces

E1/T1, STM, 1-10Gb
Ethernet

Integration of various information collection interfaces
within one ÌÑ

Supported external
component

Eagle Eye - Wi-Fi
Eagle Eye - IP tap

Integration of external components for centralized processing
of information

Surveillance of
telephony services

PSTN/2G/3G, IP
networks, NGN

Availability of a set of software
handlers for processing both of
up-to date and rarely used
signaling protocols

Surveillance of the IP
services and
application

VoIP, E-mail, Webmail, Chat,FTP, Web
brow-sing, Peer-toPeer, Telnet, Radius,
Key-words searching

Multiple monitoring tools and
techniques that can help to
intercept almost any Wired, Wi-Fi
or Hybryd Internet Network

Interception of VoIP
signaling protocols

SIP,H.323, MGCP,
Megaco, SIGTRAN

Passive deep packet probing
solution that can be tailored to
any challenging field configuration such as E1s, STM1-416-64s, ATM, 1-10 Gbps Ethernet
carried over multi protocol
switching mechanism

5

Features

6

Benefits

Information delivery

Up to 20 agencies

Supported
interception standards

ETSI TS 201671
Compliance with international
standards and regional regu(Voice), TS 101 331,
lations
ES 201158, TS
102232-1 to 102232-6
(IP, E-mail, VoIP)

Processing

Fax decoding
Fax OCR

Analysis toolbox

Connectivity diagrams Possibility to perform search of
Timeline Charts
hidden relations

Location Tracking

Location-based queries Use of location data for enhanBehavior profiles
cing intelligence picture

Security

Role-based permission
Control, Transparent
separation of multiple
agencies, Audit trails
of all system events
and user actions,
IPsec/SSL secure
remote access

Secure and independent utilization of the system by each
agency

Automatic detection and demodulation of fax transmissions with
further optical text recognition
and search of key words the
recognized text

Possibility of flexible configuration to meet any organizational security needs, standards and regulations

EAGLE EYE - MC
6, Kostomarovskaya str.
61002 Kharkov, Ukraine
Tel./Fax: +38 (057) 766-13-63
e-mail:post@altron.ua
http://www.altron.ua

