GSM/UMTS Grabber
Deploying local mobile networks and
secret grabbing of identification
information in GSM and UMTS bands

Current tasks:
• Deployment of local GSM network
• Grabbing of IMSI and IMEI identifiers
• Searching and determining of the target phone’s location

Product features:
• Emulation of any base station work in the coverage (based on NetMonitor
data)
• Defining the identifiers (IMSI, IMEI) and saving them to the database
• Turning off the target phone from real GSM network and the restriction of
certain mobile stations to obtain services (voice calls, SMS, data transfer)
• Searching and determining the location of the target phone
• Sending SMS and making calls from the operator of the GSM GRABBER to
the target (within the local GSM network)
• Checking the presence of certain mobile stations in the coverage of the
complex

GSM GRABBER can be made in different configurations. Design, size and
functionality depend on the configuration of the complex.

GSM Grabber Handheld
It is a portable, handheld device made in the body that fits in a bag for
13 laptop. The complex is designed for the secret grabbing of International
Mobile Equipment Identify (IMEI) and International Mobile Subscriber Identify
(IMSI). The system has built-in PC, antenna, and battery.

Due to its small size, the ability to hide the system to a laptop bag, as well
as operation using wireless channel with the help of iPod Touch, you can secretly
grab the identifiers of mobile stations anywhere: in restaurants, offices, and shops.
The system has built-in omnidirectional antenna. The built-in rechargeable high
capacity battery allows you to operate continuously at least 2 hours.
GSM Grabber Base
This complex made in a watertight, crashproof
and dust proof case equipped with high performance
secure series notebook as well as set of all the necessary
components designed to perform tasks of grabbing the
identifiers and searching for GSM mobile stations.

GSM Grabber Vehicle
The complex made in a special radiolucent
AirBox case intended for installation on the car roof.
Base stations unit of GSM 900 / 1800 band is equipped
with a rotation antenna system. Operation of base
station and antenna position control unit are controlled
remotely (from the car).
UMTS Grabber
The UMTS Grabber allows you to grab identification information circulating in
UMTS networks and to move UMTS phones to GSM network. It is an addition for any of
GSM Grabbers which allows determining UMTS target phones location.

CJSC Altron
6, Kostomarovskaya str.
61002 Kharkov, Ukraine
Tel./Fax: +38 (057) 766-13-63
e-mail: post@altron.ua
http://www.altron.ua

