HIDDEN TECHNOLOGY
systems international ltd.

MagnaTik Rapid Deployment GSM / GPS Unit

GSM / GPS Rapid Deployment Tracking System
Product Sheet
The MagnaTik is the third generation of HTSI’s portable Rapid
Deployment covert tracking system. Its unique performance, size and
cutting edge power management makes this system truly one of a
kind.

Rapid deployment
With the powerful earth-magnet plate integrated into the Mag3
unit it can be deployed within seconds. The unique 360o can “see”
satellites without having to have a direct view of the sky. This allows
the Mag3 in extreme circumstances to be deployed under vehicles to
be fully operational.

Power consumption
This system is delivered with an internal rechargeable Li+ battery.
Depending on the setting of the unique three Power Mode
Management configurations the Mag3 can be operational between
30 hours and 31 months. Connected to the standard external battery
the Mag3 can be operational between 90-120 hours and 84 days.
Maximum operation life is up to 200 hours and 155 days if multiple
batteries are connected.

Data logging

Features
Worldwide GSM Tracking
SMS and Data connections
Compact footprint
Internal battery
Operational up to 31 days
Extra battery options: up to 155 days standby
operation

The Mag3 has a powerful 8Mb Flash memory on board, this allows
the system to store information about position, time, heading, speed,
etc. The system can be configured to log every 20 seconds to every
42 minutes. The Mag3 will send an SMS warning when the log is
nearly full to prevent overwriting of information. The log file can be
downloading via GSM to the CP2 tracking software or directly via an
RS485 cable

Unique 360o GPS antenna

Tracking

Weatherproof enclosure for extreme harsh and
aggressive environments.

Besides live tracking from the CP2 software via SMS or GSM Data the
MagnaTik can be configured via various timers and triggers to report
back to the software.

16 Configurable GeoFence areas
Cell site ID logging and reporting
8Mb Flash memory logging
32,512 logged positions

Converter lead for hardwire deployment

GSM
The Mag3 has a tri-band GSM module that allows the system to be
deployed in almost any GSM network around the world.

GeoFence
The MagnaTik has 16 configurable GeoFence areas. The system can
be configured to trigger alarm messages and transmit data to CP2
when leaving and/or entering defined areas.

Hidden Technology Systems International Ltd.
T. +44(0)1708 631 333 • F. +44(0)1708 631 444
info@hiddentec.com • www.hiddentec.com
Unit C5, Star Business Centre, Fairview Industrial Estate, Marsh Way, Rainham, Essex, RM13 8UP.

HIDDEN TECHNOLOGY
systems international ltd.

Specifications for the MagnaTik Rapid Deployment System

Physical
Size:	

160mm X 66mm X 25mm (L x W x D) with external GSM antenna

Enclosure:	

Machined Acetal Enclosure built to IP67 specifications.

	

Internal magnetic mounting plate. Weatherproof enclosure

Connections:	

External Quad-band GSM antenna

	

Internal GPS antenna with connector for optional external GPS antenna

Weight:	

300 gram inclusive of battery and antennas

Memory
Memory:	

Internal FLASH

Data logging:	

32,512 positions

Records location:	

On timer, On event

Download:	

Via GPRS, GSM data or cable

Power Management
Power mode:	

3 different power modes

On internal battery:	

Between 52 hours and 6 months

	

3 internal Lithium Ion batteries, total 3600 mAh

	

Unit can be configured for Deep Sleep Mode providing extended Standby
deployment

With standard external battery added:	

Between 121 hours and 1.16 years. Multiple batteries can be connected in series
for extended operations. One external bat-tery will multiply the operating time
with 2.33

	

Two external batteries will multiply the operating time with 3.66

	

Unit can be configured for Deep Sleep Mode providing extended Standby
deployment

GSM
GSM module:	

Quad-band GPRS, SMS GSM module

Communication:	

GPRS, SMS and GSM Data

GPS
GPS module:	

12 channel GPS receiver

Environmental Elements
Operating temperature:	

25º Celsius to 70º Celsius

Input/output interface:	

I/O connector with one inputs and one output.

	

Input is active when connected to ground. Output is a open drain i.e.: when active
connected to ground, when inactive open, max voltage 30 Volts.

Optional Extras
Converter lead:	

Allows the MagnaTik to be deployed hardwired to 12/24v supply.

