G A M

MIER

Nodose I Monitoring Centre
Klarios''

A System Architecture
The Klarlosr" Monitoring Centre comprises:
• Front-end—connects with handover interfaces
of service provider networks; a wide range of
handover standards are supported
• Core system—storing, managing and processing
intercepted communication
• •-

• Back-end—clients for i) evaluating intercepted
and processed content: and ii) administration of the
Monitoring Centre
Awide range of functional options complete the tool-set
available to law enforcement and intelligence agencies in
order to increase productivity and optimise the results of
their investigative efforts.
All systems are delivered rack-mounted with monitoring/
configuration consoles and are equipped with UPS units
to protect the Monitoring Centre against power failure.
B Front-end
Characteristics:
1111Collection of intercepted communication from ISP,
PSTN / ISDN. 36, Next Generation and VolP networks
• Conversion/mediation of differing delivery formats
into a uniform format
Modular and scalable
The Klarios"' MC front-end family includes the following
modules:
MCMX/MCMN
Front-end for legacy circuit-switched telephony.
Receives communication content via El links, decodes
the signalling protocols. classifies calls and forwards
the content over (internal) IP networks (LAN / WAN) to
storage servers. Available in a basic version with 2 El
interfaces (MCMX) or in a modular chassis version
(MCMN) for up to 16 El interfaces.
CARHandle(
Conversion of all intercept-related information (IRI)
received by the Monitoring Centre into the standard
used in Klarios databases.

Standards
,
I International

nalysis of Intercepted Communication

APIX

Klarios® 2.0

The latest member of the ATIS front-end family is used
for collecting all communication content delivered in IP
format (VolP, e-mail. internet, etc.)
C Core System

CDBS
At the heart of the Klarios MC, the Central Database
Server (CDBS) controls and manages mission-critical
system information/data, including references to all
communication recorded (objects) as well as user
access rights and logs.
Main functions of the CDBS:
• Storing all references to content intercepted and
providing search and navigation capabilities to users
• Managing roles and access rights for system users
and administrators
• Auditing, logging and reporting all system activities
• Managing and monitoring all modules of the Klario0
Monitoring Centre
To meet the highest requirements in terms of system
availability, resilience and scalability, various database
cluster configurations are available (optional).
F3S
rr r

=
=
_=

=

z=_

,z=

•

E

Large data volumes require:
• sophisticated storage systems and content ageing
solutions;
• optimised use of available storage capacity; and

_

• minimised total cost of ownership (capital and
operational expenditure) per unit of storage.
F3S (Flexible Scalable Storage Solution) is:
• able to support virtually all storage platforms:
• independent of specific vendors; and
• independent of the rapid pace of change in the
underlying storage technology market (storage
media).

AT I S

INNER
Technical Details

Monitoring Centre
DEC
The Internet Decoding (IDEC) is a state-of-the-art
solution for demodulating and decoding a wide range
of data communication protocols. Our objective is to
reconstruct intercepted internet sessions as seen by the
intercepted subscriber.
Supported protocols include fax. SMS and commonly
used modem and Internet (application) protocols:

EFunctional Options
Several evaluation and analysis tools can be added to
the Klarios'" Monitoring Centre. Possible options include
SCP—Signal alio uolitent Proues ic,1 is a flexible and
scalable platform used for the purpose of filtering and
analysing signals collected by the Monitoring Centre.
Characteristics and features:

• Web (HTTP. webmail)
• %UP

• Library of software-based processing modules
running on a number of processing instances
(servers)
I I Facilitates the automated analysis of a broad range
of voice and data signals

• Chat (IRC, ICO. Yahoo Messenger, MSN. AIM)
• News

• Speaker and language recognition, phonetic word
indexing and protocol analysis

Decoding
• E-mail (SMTP, POP3, IMAP)

• FTP
P2P
AOL
Demodulation
PSTN (supports most of the analogue modem
standards)
• ISDN (including Multilink
link PPP)
• Fax (analogue and FRITZICard: mixed analogue-ISDN)
• EMS. MMS. ring tones
• SMS over PSTN / ISDN
Other protocols can be developed upon request.
0 Back-end
The graphical user interface of the Klarios" Monitoring
Centre is tailored to meet the requirements of law
enforcement and intelligence agencies. For this purpose,
a rich set of user-friendly features is available to
investigating officers. including:
1111rapid searching in intercepted communication
content and IRI;
• setting content processing priorities (allocating
resources for certain targets):
• defining alarms triggered by certain activities of
user-defined targets:
• easy and intuitive navigation within the content of
intercepted sessions; and
• access to comprehensive summarising statistics of
intercepted sessions (e.g. which applications were
used by the intercepted target).

Formore detailed information, please do not hesitate to contact MIS.

IDA - Intell'qent Data Aral ,• platform provides the law
enforcement and intelligence agencies with advanced
functions for conceptual search and information retrieval
within the data collected. Available features:
• Keyword search
• Linguistic processing
• Automatic data / content clustering
• Classification based on predefined or automatically
generated taxonomies
GIS—Georimohical Information System
Klarlos GIS allows geographic surveillance of targets
in mobile networks. The GIS user interface shows the
locations of the mobile subscribers being monitored and
their movements between different locations on digitised
maps.
ADRI—ATIS Retained Data Investigator
Klarioe ADRI supports direct connection to the retained
data repositories and:
• supports ETSI standardised handover or proprietary
interfaces:
• provides a wide range of data analysis. mining.
correlation. mapping and presentation tools;
• enables deep evaluation of query response data
delivered by data retention systems: and
• represents a full end-to-end data retention solution
based on state-of-the-art modular storage and
indexing platforms.
AIMS—ATIS Interception Management System
is a software module which enables law enforcement
and intelligence agencies to manage complex network
topologies in multi-vendor and multi-service-provider
environments. AIMS offers a centralised provisioning
interface to enable and disable target interception directly
from the Monitoring Centre's system administrator client
position.

