Altron’s location based GSM/UMTS mobile terminals tracking
system (MTTS) for mobile providers and law enforcement
agencies
1. Overview
MTTS hardware and software platform is used for seamless GSM/UMTS mobile terminals tracking on
the territories with GSM or UMTS coverage.
The following features of MTTS are unique and to date have never been implemented by other
vendors of similar LBS (Location-based service) systems:


The system supports simultaneous operation with up to 16 mobile operators.



MTTS allows user to detect the country where the mobile terminal has moved to and was
registered under roaming scenario. Optionally, the system can support real location detection
of the roaming subscriber in any country of the world and for any serving mobile operator
network.



And, most importantly, MTTS platform is not tailored to GSM equipment manufacturer’s
proprietary specifications and can be used across any known type of known Network Switching
Subsystem.

Accuracy for mobile terminal location detection in most cases varies from 300 to 700 meters in urban
conditions and about 1500-5000 meters outside the city. This figure largely depends on the mobile
operator’s base stations sites density in every selected region.
MTTS supports up to 1 000 location detection requests from several users per hour. In addition, user
can preset any desired information update timeframe (for example from 1 to 45 minutes) to enable
automatic real-time mobile terminals tracking.
Also, it is possible to set up multiple remote working places with Internet access and enabled VPN
connectivity, or activate remote access from any authorized smart phone. Operator of MTTS can work
from any place in the World using reliable VPN connection through Internet, or with a separate
dedicated data channel (for example, VSAT link).
The basic functionality of MTTS allows detecting the mobile terminal location by analyzing CGI (Cell
Global Identifier) data received from the relevant mobile switch controller interconnected to MTTS via

GSM MAP SS7 (ISUP/MTP) links.
MTTS operator working place can be easily integrated with Altron’s MTLS (mobile tracking and
location system (GSM/UMTS Grabber)) cell phones location detection portable system thus
significantly increasing the overall solution effectiveness.
And finally, the cost of MTTS solution is very competitive compared to similar solutions by other
vendors.
2. MTTS components
The platform includes both hardware and software components.
2.1. Hardware
MTTS hardware consists of Control Server (CS) and several Workstations (WS). Control Server (CS)
connects to Operator’s MSC (Mobile Switch Centre) (HLR (Home Location Register) subsystem) using
E1 interface.
User WS can be set up at any personal computer with Internet browser supporting JavaScript and
Cookies and having secured connection to the CS. The basic MTTS configuration includes 5 WSs.
2.2. Software
2.2.1. Control Server (CS) software
MTTS software on the CS side processes the requests from the authorized user’s WS, interrogating
mobile operator HLR. Once the information from the HLR is received, the CS performs search through
the base stations database and generates target mobile terminal location report. Simultaneously, in
order to increase location detection accuracy, the CS can use either Google or Yandex cell sites data.
All requests are logged on CS.
2.2.2. Work Station (WS) software
Client Workstation software consists of user Web interface and is used to perform mobile terminal
location search based on either MDISDN (Mobile Station Integrated Services Digital Number) or IMSI
(International Mobile Subscriber Identity), and to see relevant requests logs.

Altron: MTTS tracking platform 2011

2

The Control Server processes the request and generates a report containing the following information:


Request date and time, user ID



Mobile terminal IMSI and CGI (Cell Global Identifier)



Serving cellular base station location and its coverage area within one of sectors.



Possible mobile terminal location data based on Google/Yandex data.

Option “Request Google/Yandex” allows enable/disable additional requests to Google and Yandex
Altron: MTTS tracking platform 2011

3

databases.

Key MTTS parameters:
Number of location detection requests

up to 1 000 per hour

Requests history (log)

up to 64 000 events

Standard

GSM/UMTS

Number of connected mobile operators

up to 16

Average accuracy for coordinated detection

300-5000 meters

Average request processing time

from 5 to 12 seconds

3. Data required for enabling MTTS functionality
The following initial data is required to enable the service and is a responsibility of the end user:
1. A list of existing NSS elements and cellular base stations as per table below:
BTS

Antenna
Coverage area

BTS Nr

Address

latitude

longitude

CGI

Antenna azimuth

radius, meters
(corresponding
to azimuth)

2. SS7 signaling code for interconnecting MTTS operator work place
3. Link to local GSM operator MSC (G.703 interface, 1 SS7 link).
3. GT (Global Title) for MTTS operator work place interconnection
4. SS7 and SCCP pre-settings at operator side.
5. A list of HLRs and their GTs (Global Title).
6. A list of MSISDN/IMSI ranges for each HLR.

Altron: MTTS tracking platform 2011

4

