Innovation. Performance. Security

SMARTSAT
Satellite Monitoring Solutions - Training Courses

Overview
L-3 TRL Technology is recognised as a
world-leading supplier of satellite
monitoring products and systems. Our
SMARTSAT solutions allow government
agencies to passively monitor
communications, so threats can be
identified early and handled effectively.
Our strategic and tactical solutions have
been designed to provide the highest levels
of monitoring performance and flexibility.
With systems able to monitor the Thuraya,
Inmarsat, IsatPhone and VSAT networks, we
can deliver the most effective solutions to
meet the specific needs of our customers.

In order to utilise the full functionality of our
equipment and optimise its effectiveness,
we have designed dedicated training
courses that provide customers with the
essential skills and technical knowledge to
counter threats as they arise.
Our training programmes have been
created to give our customers the
knowledge to operate and maintain their
systems at peak operating efficiency.
We specialise in providing technical
training that can be tailored to meet
specific customer needs in a variety of
environments.

Our dedicated team can offer the perfect
balance between analysing your training
needs, designing comprehensive training
programmes and delivering them effectively
to help develop customer best practice.
Our training programmes cater for a wide
variety of requirements from basic through
to advanced courses. We have built
long-standing partnerships by ensuring that
customer training needs are met in full.

L-3 TRL Technology SMARTSAT Training Courses

Why train?
L-3 TRL’s SMARTSAT training courses
have been exclusively designed to inform
customers of all aspects involved in satellite
communications monitoring.
Our strategic alliances across the industry
and wealth of in-house expertise provides
us with the knowledge and experience to
deliver high-quality training that is aligned
with the latest developments in satellite
communications technology.

Operating effectively
capability
Optimising
With courses designed for the strategic or
tactical user, delegates will gain invaluable
knowledge in how to operate and maintain
their SMARTSAT systems in the most
effective manner.

We have both basic and advanced courses
available as well as introductory and
refresher courses; each can be tailored
to suit the specific requirements of our
customers.

Utilising the field-based expertise of our
dedicated Training Team, each course
combines a blend of informative, theoretical
presentations with practical training,
enabling our customers to realise the full
potential of their systems.

Courses for both strategic and tactical
systems are available, catering for basic
and advanced user requirements. Content
is tailored to suit the individual operational
requirements of our customers; courses
for the strategic systems follow a ‘tiered’
approach to ensure the knowledge and

Maintaining performance
For Technicians and service personnel
responsible for the maintenance of
their SMARTSAT equipment, we offer
maintenance training courses that will
help ensure the long-term and short-term
functionality of their systems.
Each course will contain information on:
• Functionality overview
• Configuration and connectivity

• Diagnostic procedures for fault 	
rectification

	

• Health and safety issues
The courses will be tailored around the
specific hardware requirements of our
customers and enable the delegates to
learn vital information through a mixture of
theoretical and practical sessions based on
the specifics of their systems.

L-3 TRL’s SMARTSAT Operator’s courses
are tailored to the needs of the system
user and provide the skills and knowledge
necessary to carry out practical operating
techniques and procedures.

L-3 TRL’s SMARTSAT Maintainer’s courses
are suitable for Technicians from an
Electrical Engineering background.
Delegates should have a working
knowledge of satellite systems, radio and
intermediate frequency principles as well as
having basic computer skills. A sound faultfinding technique is also essential.

skills are directed at the right users, from
the Call Processor Operator to the System
Administrator.
Delegates will gain an in-depth
understanding of a range of subjects, which
may include the following:
• Network theory
• Operating principles
• Hardware configuration
• Software configuration and operation

• Call processing and data analysis
techniques
• System configuration and optimisation 	
techniques
Instruction for each Operator’s course
will combine theoretical training with
practical exercises and/or demonstrations
dependant on class size.
Delegates attending the Operator’s courses
should be familiar with basic PC operating
procedures.

SMARTSAT
Satellite Monitoring Solutions
Training Courses

Our instructors
Our dedicated team of highly trained ex-Military and defence Engineers has over 20 years’ operational experience of working in the
telecommunications environment. They bring a variety of job experiences, real-world applications and insight to enhance the learning
process and ensure instruction is targeted to meet the needs of the customer.

Consultancy
Our training team have established the highest worldwide renown for determining and addressing customers’ specific satellite monitoring
requirements by providing proven, achievable solutions to meet the reality of any operational situation.

Where we train
For the convenience of our customers, we provide training at either the customer’s site or in our training centre in Tewkesbury.
Our dedicated facility offers delegates access to in-house expertise and advanced technical equipment. The training centre is
approximately 100 miles from London in the UK and easily accessible from local airports and minutes from junction 9, M5 motorway.

The next step
This brochure gives you an outline view of our SMARTSAT training courses. For further details on these courses or how we can create a
bespoke solution to meet your exact needs, please contact us.
L-3 TRL protects people worldwide from current and ever-evolving threats through market-leading defence solutions.
We deliver innovative, proven technology in Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR), Force Protection and Information
Assurance to governments and defence agencies.
Unit 19, Miller Court, Severn Drive, Tewkesbury,
Gloucestershire GL20 8DN, UK
Telephone +44 (0)1684 278700
Fax +44 (0)1684 850406
Email training.trl@L-3Com.com
Web www.L-3Com.com/TRL

L-3 TRL reserves the right to amend specifications in the light of
continuing development – 0210-1
© TRL Technology Limited

Cert no. TT-COC-002496

Innovation. Performance. Security

