~a::;!:llOTi::L )

INTERNATIONAL

!

The

inte l ligence

to

protect

Technology used by insurgents and terrorists is
increasingly sophisticated and readily available;
countering this threat requires the most reliable and
advanced equipment possible.
For over 30 years Audiotel International has been at the
forefront in developing equipment to combat this threat and

Modern day conflict is asymmetric with our forces fighting an

Reliable and
simple to operate

un-conventional enemy. In Audiotel International we have

Audiotel International has extensive experience

made it our business to work closely with the Military around

in developing equipment to meet both NATO

the world to match our product range with their latest

specifications and defence standards using

evolving requirements.

military specification materials and the highest

provides the ultimate in your protection.

standard manufacturing processes.
Our extensive product portfolio includes counter surveillance
scanners to detect audio/visual transmissions, as well as audio

Our total commitment to excellence recognised

surveillance equipment to ensure you are always one step

by ISO 9001 :2008 certification means that our

ahead. In addition we offer a range of search tools to locate
electronic, corrosive and metallic targets both buried and on
the surface.

products are made to the highest quality and
are built to be robust and reliable.
All of our products are designed for simple

We have the intelligence to protect, giving you the peace of
mind that your forces and key defences remain safe and intact.

Providing protection the world over
Audiotel International has built a reputation on delivering the best
equipment to Military and Specialist Forces in the UK and around
the world. We have provided equipment to Specialist Search Teams,
Special Forces, TSCM Search Teams and Diplomatic Security Officers
employed in counter terror protection.
Our wide range of state-of-the-art products are specially designed
to offer flexibility for different users, applications and environments.
Brief product descriptions are provided on the opposite page and
are also available in greater detail online at
www.audiotel-international.com

The

inte l ligence

operation with the need for training and
support minimised. We do offer a range of
training and support options to suit your needs.

Working closely with our customers, Audiotel
International is constantly developing new
products to protect you from the next threat.
You can find the most up-to-date information
on these at our website

www.audiotel-international.com

For more information or a product
demonstration please contact us today

Telephone: +44(O)1536 464880
Email: defence@audiotel-international.com
Visit: www.audiotel-international.com

to

protect
I

World-class products from Audiotel International
Working closely with armed forces around the world to
understand their requirements has enabled our Design
Team to develop equipment that remains ahead of the
threat. Here is a brief description of a few of the products
we offer:

Counter-surveillance receivers

Fixed and mobile room protection

As technology advances and eavesdropping

Room Guard is a detector that is always on guard protecting

devices become more complex, Audiotel

against all kinds of radio eavesdropping

International has developed the Scanlock

devices - it uniquely highlights the use ofWi-Fi,

M3 to keep you safe. It is not only able to

mobile phone networks, radio signals and

search and locate signals, but in addition is

Bluetooth transmissions.

the only product on the market
which can identify the type of
signal being transmitted.
Product Scanlock M3.

This sensor is also available in a mobile portable
Meeting Guard variant specifically aimed at
office environments.
Product s Room Guard, Casino Guard and
Meeting Guard.

Non Linear Junction Detectors
Audiotel International offers a range of advanced NUDs to

Weight Management Systems

meet all your detection needs. The SuperBroom Advanced is

The unique UHS2 weight management system has been

suitable for internal or external environments, above or

designed specifically to overcome the burden of the

below ground searching and capable of detecting

increased load. The versatile design of UHS2 makes it

electronic devices even when they are turned off.

compatible with NATO style Enhanced Combat Body

The Detect IV is a revolutionary all in one multi-threat

Armour, utilising the universal MOLLE (Modular Lightweight

detector. Combining the advanced technology of

Load-carrying Equipment) system. Product UHS2.

broadband detection, harmonic receiving, Non linear
Junction Detection (NUD) and metal detection, resulting in
a versatile search and locate counter surveillance tool.

Audio Surveillance Equipment
Audiotel International offers high quality, evidential audio

The Artemis Advanced is our most advanced NUD to date

surveillance equipment suitable for a variety of covert

with market leading features for specialist search. Suitable

applications. The range includes short and long range
transceivers, with the capability to be body worn, quick

for external or internal detection, this user configurable
detector will locate electronic, corrosive and metallic targets

plane, throw away or host/Trojan. With short and

both buried and on the surface. It is simple to operate,

long range antennas being supported by repeaters

robust and highly capable.

as well as internet listening capability through a

Together these offer invaluable protection against a wide

web browser, gives you che flexibility to listen to

spectrum of threats and provide

audio from anywhere in the world. We also offer

a simple, effeccive and easy to

through the wall listening capability that

use integrated solution.

includes dual Knowles microphone, dual
Probe microphones and dual

Products SuperBroom Advanced,
Artemis Advanced and Detect IV.

Accelerometers. Products Visit the restricted
area of our website for more information.

www.audiotel-international.com
1

"'

UK made, trusted
the world over

All our equipment is designed, developed and manufactured at our well
equipped and secure facilities in che UK.
Using scringent levels of quality concrol, high specification macerials and
innovacive manufacturing cechniques, we produce security equipment that
is reliable, robust and effeccive.
We have a worldwide reputation for excellence - which is underlined by che
fact that we export more chan 7096 of our products to over 90 countries
around the globe through our international distribucor necwork.
Make Audiotel part of your defence team .

..u::;!:JIOTCL )
INTERNATIONAL

Audiotel International Limited Unit 2, 25 Earlstrees Road, Corby, Northants NNl 7 4AZ I www.audiotel-international.com
Tel: +44 (0) 1536 464888 I Fax: +44 (0) 1536 268363 I Email: mfo@audiotel international.com
Reg1s1ered 1n Engl~nd No: I SS7063 Aud1otel Req1ste1ed Office· 133 El.lvry Street. London SWIW 9QU

The

intelligence

to

protect

.'

