..u:;!:JIOTEL )
INTERNATIONAL

I

;

'

T h e

i n t e l l i gence

t o

protec t

For over 30 years our key principles of innovation and
providing technical advantage, have secured our position
as the backbone of Counter Surveillance and Intelligence
gathering to Police & Security services worldwide.
Audiotel International has applied its advanced technology to a
multitude of Law Enforcement and Government teams to

intelligence theft.

Simple to use, and
always reliable

As technology becomes more sophisticated and readily available,

All our products have been designed to be

the roles of protection agencies are continually evolving to stay

easy to use with little or no training.

eliminate threats including surveillance. terrorism and

one step ahead of the threat. Audiotel International has a long
history of working in close partnership with the police and
security services to develop a versatile product range to suit a

Our commitment to deliver quality has
ensured we are certified co ISO 9001 :2008, our

variety of situational requirements.

products are made to the highest standards.

The result is a range of specialist products that give you the

To help our customers get the very best from

confidence that you are equipped to complete your job.

our products we also offer a range of training
and support options.

Providing protection, t he world over
Audiotel International is recognised as a global market leader
in the surveillance and counter surveillance field. Our
specialist product range is utilised by numerous police and
government agencies, where it is at the very heart of their

Working closely with our customers, Audiotel
International is constantly developing new
products to protect you from the next threat.

security strategies.

You can find the most up-to-date information
Audiotel lnternational's equipment is trusted in a variety of

on these at our website

security situations including border security, counter terror,

www.audiotel-international.com

protection of government buildings and intelligence gathering.
The state-of-the-art products are developed for all users and
are effective for a diverse range of applications and
environments. Brief descriptions of them are provided on the
opposite page and you can find more detailed and technical
information online at www.audiotel-international.com

The

inte l ligence

For more information or a product
demonstration please contact us today

Telephone: +44 (0)1536 464890
Email: leg@audiotel-international.com
Visit: www.audiotel-international.com

to

protPct

I
I

World-class products from Audiotel International
Our close working relationship with law enforcement and
other government agencies has helped us understand the
requirements and enabled our design team to develop
products that keep you ahead of the criminals and terrorists.
Here is a brief description of a few of the products we offer:

Counter-surveillance receivers
As lechnology advances and eavesdropping

Handheld, local differential
RF detector

devices become more complex, Audiotel

The Delta V Advanced is a compact

International has developed the Scanlock

handheld differential RF wide-band detector.

M3 to keep you safe. It is not only able to

Measuring the race of change in field

search and locate signals, but in addition is

strength enables accurate pinpointing of

the only product on the market

local RF sources, quickly and efficiently.

which can identify the type of
signal being transmitted.

The technology protects against real time
transmissions from surveillance bugs by

Product Scanlock M3.

detecting and locating their signal, then
using audio and visual alerts to guide you to the target.

Non Linear Junction Detectors

Suitable for people or object searching, whatever
che situation.

Audiotel International offers a
range of advanced NLJDs to

Product Delta V Advanced.

meet all your protection needs.
Suitable for internal or external
environments, above or below ground

Audio Surveillance Equipment

searching and capable of detecting electronic

Audiotel International offers high quality, evidential audio

devices even when they are curned off.

surveillance equipment suitable for a variety of covert

Prod uct s SuperBroom Advanced, Artemis Advanced

and Detect IV.

applications. The range includes short and long range
transceivers, with the capability to be body worn,
quick plant. throw away or host/Trojan. With
short and long range antennas being

Fixed and mobile room protection
Room Guard is a detector that is always on
guard protecting against all kinds of radio
eavesdropping devices - it uniquely highlights
the use ofWi-Fi, mobile phone networks, radio
signals and Bluetooth transmissions.

supported by repeaters as well as internet
listening capability through a web browser,
gives you the nexibilicy to listen to audio
from anywhere in the world. We also
offer through the wall listening
capability that includes dual Knowles
microphone, dual Probe microphones

This sensor is also available in a mobile portable

and dual Accelerometers.

Meeting Guard variant specifically aimed at

Products Visit the restricted area of our

office environments.

website for more information.

Product s Room Guard and Meeting Guard.

l
I

www.audiote l - i nternationa l .com

UK made, trusted
the world over

All our equipment is designed, developed and manufactured at our well
equipped and secure facilities in the UK.
Using stringent levels of quality control, high specification materials and
innovative manufacturing techniques, we produce security equipment that
is reliable, robust and effective.
We have a worldwide reputation for excellence - which is underlined by the
fact that we export more than 70% of our products to over 90 coun tries
around the globe through our international distributor network.
Make Audiotel part of your law enforcement team .

..u;!:JIOTiCL )
INTERNATIONAL

Audiotel International Limited Unit 2, 25 Earlstrees Road, Corby, Northants NNl 7 4AZ I www.audiotel-international.com
Tel: +44(0)1536 464888 I Fax: +44 (0)1536 268363 I Email: infO@audiotel-internat1onal.com
Registered in England No: 1557063 Audiotel Registered Office: 133 Ebu1y ~11eet. London SWIW 90U

The

i n te l l igence

t o

protect

