SERVICES PROVIDED
Smooth and professional deployment

With its growing experience, Amesys has mastered the art of implementation of intelligence system. Our
team of professional expert will help you from the design of the architecture to the installation of the global
system and even through a full-range of “on-site” training for your operators and administrators.

Technical and operational training

Amesys will guide you and teach you from the basis of network protocols to the latest method of cryptography
to train the persons that will be in charge of the system. We dispose of a full range of training on GSM,
Microwave links, IP network or Satellite communications so that you can master this type of subjects and
be more efficient with the system.

Start-up support

Amesys can provide technical start-up support based on engineers specialized in Intelligence solutions who
can be on-site to help you during the first months with the system.

Follow network protocol upgrades

Amesys helps government organizations and law enforcement agencies to remain up-to-date on very
changing network protocols like Instant Messenger or Web-mails.

Follow voice codec modifications

With specialized voice engineers, Amesys is able to provide to its customer frequent upgrades of free and
proprietary voice codec.

CONTACTS
Headquarters
1030, av. Guillibert de la Lauzière
Les Milles - BP 20 140
13794 AIX-EN-PROVENCE Cedex 03
Tel : +33 (0)4 42 60 70 00
Fax : +33 (0)4 42 60 00 26
Paris
20, rue de Billancourt
92100 BOULOGNE BILLANCOURT
Tel : +33 (0)1 41 22 12 00
Fax : +33 (0)1 41 22 12 01
eagle@amesys.fr

a m esys

www.amesys.fr

www.antidote-design.com RCS Marseille B 434 874 095 - Document non contractuel - Février 2009 - Crédit photos : Fotolia-C. Moustier

A MES Y S I NTELLI GENCE SOLUTIONS

C RITI C A L SYSTE M A R C H ITE C T

Amesys core business is to develop electronic hardware and software solutions targeted for specific
high-technology markets. In order to address those markets, Amesys has structured its sales organization
in four Strategic Business Units:

Energy and Industry
Defence, Telecom and Aerospace
Transportation and Supply Chain
Network and Security

Our mission is to thoroughly master all types of technologies and combine them to build customers’ solutions:

Analog and microwave frequency electronics
High speed digital electronics
Secure and rugged on-board technologies
Real time data processing
Distributed data processing: n-tier architecture, data base,
Signal processing
Radio communications
Process control, automation and supervision
Security software, biometry and cryptography

Ou r

Business

Major customers in the defence market find in Amesys the level of innovation, expertise and security they need.
Our Assets:

Strong experience in signal processing, modulation, telecom protocols,
demodulation

Specialized processors know-how, FPGA, Digital Signal Processors,...
Hands-on radio and microwave frequencies knowledge (up to 60 GHz)
Complete SATCOM solutions
Insurance of maintaining its products operational in the long run,

thanks to its obsolescence management, make-over programs…

Amesys developed an entire range of intelligence products answering to the needs of either government
agencies or law enforcement agencies. With a wide range of captors, the solutions by Amesys are clearly
designed to fulfil the increasing need of intelligence against new terrorist or criminal threats.

3

INTELLIGENCE PROCESS CONFIGURATION
EAGLE core technology by Amesys is designed to help Law Enforcement Agencies and Intelligence organizations
to reduce crime levels, to protect from terrorist threats and to identify new incoming security dangers.

The EAGLE Interception System breaks down in four distinct parts:

The probe capturing the traffic: Totally passive probes can be plugged on any type of
support to increase the operational coverage of the intelligence system.

The Data Center for classification and storage: Entirely scalable hardware built on clusters

Products and solutions based on EAGLE are built to cover the entire range of intelligence issues spanning
from interception to processing, analysis and distribution of information to the operators. Amesys proposes
the widest range of interception solutions as well for Lawful Interception issues as for Intelligence systems or
even government agencies. Based on EAGLE core, you will build up an entire analysis solution, which answers
all the needs of tactical or strategic intelligence.

e

of multi-core processors improves the analysis and classification capacity of the entire system.

The Monitoring Center: easy-to-use graphical user interface enhances operational workflow

and helps operators to increase the effectiveness and the relevance of the intelligence
production process.
The smart analysis tools: State-of-the-art smart modules increase the effectiveness of
incoming interceptions classification, including traffic analysis, speaker identification, voice
translation, transcription etc.

Concept

Amesys has the capacity to handle any kind of information coming from many different sources in a unique
datacenter. With EAGLE core technology, operators can analyze communications and cross-reference each
other for the most accurate surveillance.

Build a real intelligence strategy: Regroup all the intercepted data in one single datacenter,
which gives a clear view of the different activities of your targets. Amesys helps you dig in this
digital tsunami with advanced technical modules and specific intelligence processes.
Bypass all technical complexity: End-users interact with the huge amount of data stored in
the system through a friendly graphical interface. The entire technical complexity is hidden.
The EAGLE end-users are investigators and not network engineers.
Enhance protocol classification: Thank’s to it’s advanced technology of protocol analysis,
EAGLE solutions are the most accurate products for content classification. This technology
has been developed and integrated for many of sources : IP network, PSTN, GSM…
Offers a wide range of additional smart modules: Enhances the productivity of your
monitoring center with graphical representations of communications (social network), advanced
search engine, semantic analysis, topic spotting, automatic transcription, geo-localization, etc…

e

Concept

FLEXIBLE AND SCALABLE ARCHITECTURE
Amesys Intelligence Products are designed to help you to keep pace with changing operational needs.
All the parts of the Intelligence Life Cycle are sized and designed to fit exactly your needs and can be upgraded
according to the growth of your communication networks.

Amesys answers to the two types of needs in intelligence systems: strategic or tactical.

EAGLE is a fully scalable solution that can be interfaced with existing solutions to obtain the best
intelligence system. EAGLE is a solution suitable for tactical and nationwide needs.

5

THE CAPTORS

THE PROCESS

EAGLE is a unified system that centralises information coming from various means transmission. Depending
on the medium, Amesys provides different types of probes. The common main characteristic is that all these
probes remain passive, invisible and unreachable for any intruders.

e

Captors

While processing a folder an operator listens, to the voice calls, reads the interception intercepts, make the
transcription and writes the intelligence note to the authority. He has a very simple screen and the necessary
know-how is very limited.
This example is the main screen for a specific
folder, showing all the intercepted
communications; one can select the type of
interception he’s interested in by clicking the
adequate tab at the top of the main
screen, i.e. if VoIP is chosen , only the VoIP sessions
will be shown. It is possible to make a search in
each tab or in all the tabs simultaneously;
once the search is done a new tab will be
automatically created, allowing the operator
to work on it or to do another level of search
(search on a search result).

e

Process

This screen is the standard screen for an

intercepted text message conversation
between suspects.
It is possible to access any information contained
in the protocol (in the form of Call Data Records
- CDR), access all the attached documents
(MMS/SMS on GSM networks or email/chat on
IP Networks), perform key word spotting on
those ones, and even extract interesting data
from the content itself (the system will extract
automatically any e-mail address or telephone
number from the content).

7

THE PROCESS

THE PROCESS

Once a folder has been processed, a graphical
representation of the social group can be
displayed, helping the operators to etablish the
social networks of suspects. This representation
is automatically generated and updated,
and allows the user to access the different
interceptions by clicking on a link between any
of the suspects.
This social network representation is displayed
in addition to a timeline representing

chronologically the
between suspects.

communications

You can also choose to represent the social
network during only a specific period of time.

e

Process

In order to enhance the productivity of the
operators and investigators, Amesys includes
in its solution a smart module that realizes
automatic voice transcription. The result
of the transcription is indexed in the global
search engine. The research by keywords will
help you classify the huge amount of incoming
voice conversation.
This module constitutes the first level of
classification for voice interception. Facing the
increasing number of voice communications
at the scale of a nation, human operators are
not any more capable of analysing these data.
The automatic transcription can be combined
with a module of speaker recognition. You will define a bunch of suspected people of whose
voice is known. Afterwards, the system will automatically recognize them amongst all the others.
This can also be used as an alarm trigger.

e

Process

If you choose to dispose of the geo-localization
option, you will be able to access to the

position of your suspects during its
communication.
This geo-localization can be either based on IP
address or on GSM localization.
The position of your suspects will be given by
GPS coordinates and represented on a map in
the graphical interface.

The system is also capable to accept filter based
on geographic position. With this type of filters,
you will be able to focus on a specific zone and
have all the communication of the specified
zone.

The language presented in the table below are available today in advanced smart modules by Amesys:
(in bold, the languages already integrated, the other are in progress)
Arabic Egyptian

Arabic

Chinese

Chinese, Mandarin Taiwan

Czech

Croatian

English American, non-Southern

Dutch; Netherlands

English

English American, Southern

Finnish

Farsi

French

French Canadian

Greek

German

Hungarian

Hindi

Italian

Indonesian

Japanese

Japanese

Norwegian

Korean

Portuguese

Polish

Russian

Romanian

Slovenian

Serbian

Spanish Caribbean

Spanish Non-Caribbean

Swedish

Spanish

Thai

Tamil

Chinese, Mandarin Mainland

Turkish
Vietnamese

9

TACTICAL vs MASSIVE

LAWFUL INTERCEPTION VS INTELLIGENCE

With the tactical system, Amesys provides you with all the advantages of the Core Technology of EAGLE
in a transportable rugged computer.

For Law Enforcement Agencies (LEA), Amesys designed a special range of products to fulfil the specific
needs of this type of organisation in terms of interception and surveillance.
With a central database able to agglomerate different sources of data, the investigators have access to
valuable information concerning the activity of their suspects.
The graphical user interface has been based on all concepts inherent to Lawful Interceptions.

Main characteristics:

Pluggable directly on IP network
with appropriate TAP

Can be combined with ADSL or WiFi
or Satellite sensors.

Can analyze the content of network

capture files (pcap files)
Storage designed to record days of traffic
Able to analyze up to 10 Mbps full-duplex
of incoming traffic in real time.
Able to analyze E1 based link
with specific captor.
Ideal for operators or investigations that need a close surveillance of your suspects.
Possibility to have multiple operators working on the same central device through
highly secured connection.

Tactical

vs Massive

Creation of investigation files for each interception containing the name
of the investigator, the details of the suspect, the phone numbers (fixed line and GSM),
the IP address, the name of the judge …
Possibility to exploit the system remotely with secured network.
Creation of a local active directory for each investigation.
Creation of a global active directory regrouping all the information
of the different investigation and their origin.
Automatic or assisted transcription of audio communication
Control and classification of the minutes.
Creation of suspect files (picture, addresses, phone numbers, …)
Graphical analysis of all traffic of the watched person with possibility to correlate
with graphs of other investigations.
Integrated multi-criteria search engine. Possibility to execute all type of researches:
by date, by time, by phone number, by names, by mail address, by keywords,
by geographical localization …
Exportation of the content (tables, directory …) to standard formats (Excel …).
Compliant with lawful interception regulations and standards such as ETSI and CALEA.

Lawful Interception

The massive system is designed to answer to the need of interception and surveillance on a scale of
nation. The central database is able to aggregate information coming from different type of sensors and
also to be connected to external database to cross reference information.
Completely and easily connectable to existing system, the massive products designed by Amesys are the
best answers to your needs.
Main characteristics:

Capacity to analyze nationwide

data flow in real-time.
Designed to aggregate all sources of information.
Storage Area Network (SAN) designed to fit your
needs from some terabytes to tens of petabytes.
Built on unique state-of-the-art technological
modules.

Display all information to the investigators

in the easiest way. Ergonomic graphical user interface.
No technical network skills required for investigators.
Real-time alarm rising with possibility
to get this alarm on a GSM for example.
System built on the “need to know” concept.
Partitioning of information.
All entering information can be time-stamped and
digitally signed by the system to be used as legal proof.
According to your needs, you can add smart modules
in order to enhance your intelligence productivity.

vs Intelligence

The EAGLE core technology is the cornerstone of Intelligence system for government agencies. The
solutions built by Amesys will deliver great benefits: productivity, intelligence gathering process,
operational coverage, cutting-edge technological modules…
The Intelligence solutions designed by Amesys are built on an extensive knowledge of the intelligence
world. They are conceived to fit perfectly the need of governmental agencies.

Classification of incoming information in prioritized folders:

general search for global analysis and open case for known targets.

Setting up of four-level architecture for the monitoring centers:

analyst, linguist, supervisor and system operator.
Partitioning of information. System built on the “need to know” concept.

Combined with state-of-the-art technological intelligent modules:

automatic audio transcription, automatic translation, semantic analysis, topic spotting,
geo-localization ...
Capacity to analyse nation-wide data flow in real time.
Storage Area Network designed for exploitation of information.
Can be upgraded with archiving storage space.
Completely scalable architecture easily adaptable to growing needs.
System entirely mastered by the end-user.
Ergonomic graphical user interface.

11

