ln today's dynamic business environment, the modern IP network is a critical success
factor. Under increas ing pressure to orchestrale the seam less and re liable delivery
of services to meet increasing user expectations, today's Information Technology (I T)
organization must provide more services and greater business value with fewer resources
and lower operating budgets than before. Yet according to Gartner, operational costs
consume as much as 70 percent of the average IT budget. Today's IT requirement is to:
• Reduce the cost of IT
• lncrease IT performance
• lmprove operational efficiencies
• Deliver the highest quality and availability of IT services possible
This is no simple task. Due to a lack of unified and consistent visibility into network and
application performance with dynamic correlation to services, the business and user
experience is unacceptable.
The ever changing technology landscape has changed and the IT infrastructure has
become complex. To reduce the cost and complexity, scale globally, and adapt to
emerging technologies, such as cloud services, virtualization, and unified communications,
the Enterprise is looking for an automated, unified approach to managing service de livery.

Unified Service Delivery Management
The Unified Service Delivery Management framework from NetScout " Systems lnc.
enables your organization to build a dynamic, scalable and sustainable approach to
service delivery management that aligns with IT with business objectives and improves
service quality and reliability. This unified view of the service delivery environment extends
from the data center, to the network, to the users, and empowers the IT organizations to
manage services, network and users in unison. By reducing the underlyin g complexity
and achieving a unified business and service perspective of converged global networks,
NetScout enables IT organizations to add ress business and technology challenges posed
by the growth of data volume and transactions, the proliferation of smart devices, and
the emergence of new technologies that include unified communications, application
virtualization, SOA, cloud services and data center consolidati on.
NetScout works with Enterprise organtzations to create a un ified and flexible service
delivery management architecture and increases the efficiency and effectiveness of the
IT organization in the following ways:
• Assure business service continuity
• Achieve optimal user experience
• Optimize service delivery performance
Better leverage existing infrastructure
• Simplify managing service delivery
• Reduce operations and support complexity and costs
Lower the overall total cost of IT operations
NetScout designs distinct product families that range from portable field service tools,
to dedicated hot-spot deep packet analysis and forensics, to end-to-end always on
service assurance with intelligent early warning capabilities. NetScout so lutions leverage
advanced packet-flow technologies to enable greater visibility to effectively monitor,
analyze and assure the end-to-end performance of applications and services for
enterprise, government, and service providers.
These highly sophisticated tools provide both a business and technical perspective
of service delivery that allows IT and business management staff to fully understand
resource impact and ail interdependencies across networks, servers, applications and
users to optimize service delivery and protect against service outages. Reg ardless of the
design center deployment, NetScout products enable the IT organization to meet the
chal lenges and demands associated with modern day service del ivery.

The Unif ied Service Delivery Management framework enables the IT organization to:
Optimize the service delivery environment, better leverage existing investments, and
rol l out new services with confidence
• Protect network and application performance, and assure th e quality of user experience
Simplify operations, improve workflow, consolidate tools, improve efficiency and
collaboration, and lower the overal l cost of IT operations

Support for IT Initiatives
NetScout nGenius " and Sniffer " techno logies enable IT organization s to dramatical ly
improve service quality while evolving their service management model from a reactive
approach to a more proactive, predictable model. Th is always-on, high-performance
approach enables organ izations to consistently assure service delivery from th e data
center to the desktop and over the WAN to the branch office while freeing up scarce IT
resources to spend time on more strategi c initiatives. Common IT initiatives include:
• Data Center and Virtual ization -Enables service delivery across virtual and physical
environments for a comprehensive, unified view of application and network
performance. The correlation of physical and virtual services in the data center
enables IT org anizations to optimize data center infrastructure investments, protect
against service degradations, and simplify the operation of complex, multi-tier
application environments.
• Unified Communications-Oelivers unified visibility to view voice, data and video
services side-by-side to understand the interrelationships of ail services that
traverse the network infrastructure.
• Branch Office and WAN -Bring s extended visibility into the performance of
applications and networks at and between locations, unified into an end-ta-end
solution that promotes collaborative problem-solving and planning.
• Enterprise Mobility-Provides service assurance across the infrastructure and
applications supporting wireless service delivery, and rapid-resp onse network
troubleshooting integration.
• Process lmprovement and ITIL-Oelivers real-time and historical information that
provides the insight required to restore service, manage capacity, and understand
the user quality of experience while streamlining workflow to support Information
Techno logy Infrastructure Library (ITIL) process improvements.
• Service Assurance and Troubleshooting-Provides real-time enterprise-wide views
that are supported by high-definiti on, actionable information on ail network traffic.
This information on individual applications, segments and end-users enables rapid
isolation of network issues, quick service restoration, and minimizes impact to the
business.

NetScout Network and Application Performance
Product Families
A market leader in Unified Service Delivery Management solutions, NetScout assures
service quality and user experience for the world's most demanding and complex service
delivery environments. With a rich, 26 year history of technology innovation, NetScout
continues to lead the market and dramatically change how IT organizations provide
service assurance across modern IP networks. NetScout remains focused on aligning
the NetScout product portfolio to meet the requirements of the modern IT organization
by providing robust tools that enable the efficient and effective management of dynamic
network and application environments.
Network and application analysis products from NetScout provide deployment-proven
valuable insight into the dynamic nature of data, voice and video running across modern
IP networks. These highly sophisticated tools provide both a business and technical
perspective of service delivery that enables IT and business management staff to
fully understand resource impact and all interdependencies across networks, servers,
applications, and users to optimize service delivery and protect against service outages.
NetScout enables IT organizations to improve service avai lability and reliability with highly
scalable and flexible real-time service delivery management capabi lities that support a
wide-range of IT operational teams including network managers, data center operations,
application management, network operations centers, network engineering, IT operations,
and security operations.
NetScout has three distinct product families
that range from portable field service tools,
to dedicated hot-spot deep packet analysis
and forensics, to end-to-end always-on
service assurance with intelligent early
warning capabilities. These tools leverage
the power of packet-flow knowledge
to support both strateg ic and tactical
approaches to applications and networks
performance management. These producl
fami lies are:
• nGenius Service Assurance Solution
• Sniffer Analysis
Sniffer Portable Analyzer
Additional details discussed in following
sections.

6

...

•

t

tw
0

Ne

• Pr

7

nGenius Service Assurance Solution
The nGenius Service Assurance Solution is a Unified Service Del ivery Management
platform that provides IT organizations with comprehensive, real-time network, application
and service performance intelligence to optimize network and application performance
and assure a high quality user experience.
The nGenius Service Assurance Solution allows a comprehensive approach to managing
service de livery that empowers the IT organization to dramaticall y improve the overall
quality of se rvice for applications and services delivered across the entire enterprise.
Pervasive visibility into the end-to-end service delivery environ ment enables the IT
organization to provide greater service reliability and availability with improved network
performance and responsiveness. A unified framework for service delivery management
reduces the total cost of IT operations as operations are consolidated into a sing le tool
set that can be leveraged across the entire organization.
The nGenius Service Assurance Solution provides always-on network and application
visibi lity with a common and consistent view of service-oriented analysis and reporting
functi ons that increases productivity and collaboration across the IT organization with
team-oriented workflows. Solution capabi lities include:
• Intelligent Early Warning & Service Visualization
Application & Network Performance Management
• Service & Policy Validation
• Trending & Reporting
• Service Optimization & Capacity Planning
• Forensics & H istorical Analysis

Intelligent Earty Waming and
Service Visuahzat1on

8

Application and Network
Performance Management

The nGenius Service Assurance Solution is a unified platform that leverages a number
of specialized modules and Intelligent Data Sources that work together to provide the
unified solution. Components include:
nGenius Analysis Modules leverage the nGenius Intelligent Data Sources to collect and
analyze valuable user traffic on a distributed basis across a wide range of environments

nGenius Service Delivery Manager - intelligent early warning, flexible service views
and service-centric workflows providing end-to-end user experience visibility
nGen1us Performance Manager - network and application performance, service
validation and optimization and planning across the modern IP network
• nGenius Trading Intelligence a high-performance, latency-management solution for
trading environments that addresses the specialized visibility needs of exchanges,
buy-side and sell side capital market firms
Sniffer Analysis Modules provides unsurpassed segment-by-segment deep packet
analysis and troubleshooting capabi lities by leveraging any number of nGenius
lnfiniStream ' appliances deployed across the network

Sniffer Intelligence (base module)-back-in -time application-aware analysis
software supplies packet-level forensic analysis to simplify troubleshooting,
including enterprise application and voice intell igence capabil1ties
lnfiniStream Console Software - direct-connect interface to an nGenius
lnfiniStream appliance
Sniffer Financ1al Intelligence Software - an optional software module that is highly
optimized to analyze and troubleshoot financial trading environments
• Sniffer Mult1Segment Analysis - an optional post capture analysis software module
that automates the tedious process of matching packet traces across multiple
network segments determining exactly where network delays occur
NetFlow Analysis Modules correlate Cisco ' NetFlow data and IP SLA results collected
by nGenius Collector appliances into actionable ins ight for critical troubleshooting and
capacity planning activities

nGenius Performance Manager for Flows -leverages Cisco NetFlow or sFlow data
from popular network devices as their primary source of network traffic data.
• nGenius Analytics for Flows leverages NetFlow conversation information to
automatically detect and aid in diagnosing anomalous network and application usage

NetScout Products and Solutions Reference Guide

9

nGenius Intelligent Data Sources are a comprehensive fami ly of appliances and
software-based agents that provide packet flow-based visibility for ail applications and
services that flow across global networks.

• nGenius lnfiniStream Appliances - dedicated intelligent deep packet capture
appliances to support service assurance and unparal leled application and network
performance analysis
• nGenius Probes - perform deep packet analysis and provide high-definition
application and network performance information to the nGenius Service
Assurance Solution. Probe technology extends pervasive visibility into the data
center through a range of deployment sources:
- nGenius Integrated Agent - deployed in third-party network devices
such as switches or routers
- nGenius Virtual Agent - deployed as an application ins ide vi rtual server
- nGen1us Hardware Probes - deployed as traditional hardware-based
Intelligent Data Source
nGenius Collector - a hardware appliance that delivers NetFlow and IP SLA-based
data to the nGenius Performance Manager, nGenius Performance Manager for
Flows, and nGenius Analytics fo r Flows

10

nGenius Analysis Modules
The nGenius Analysis Modules leverage the nGenius Intelligent Data Sources to
collect and analyze valuable user traffic on a distributed basis across a wide range of
environments. The nGenius Analysis Modules provide IT organizations with unified visibility
into end-to-end service delivery in context with how services are delivered and consumed
to more effectively manage the user experience.
Building on the nGen ius Service Assurance Solution's comprehensive ability to collect,
correlate, analyze, and report on mass volu mes of packet-flow data, nGenius Analysis
Modules provide IT organizations with the tools and streamlined workflows to create a
pred1ctive and preventative approach that provides actionable management insight to
effectively assure service levels, improve the operating environment, and protect the user
experience.

nGenius Service Delivery Manager
The nGenius Service Delivery Manager is a real-time service dashboard that provides
unified visibility into end-to-end service delivery in context with how services are delivered
and consumed to more effectively manage the user experience. Building on the nGenius
Service Assurance Solution's abi lity to col lect, correlate, analyze, and report on mass
volumes of packet-flow data, nGenius Service Delivery Manager closes the gap between
the network and business services to deliver timely and actionable management insight to
effectively assure service levels.
The nGenius Service Delivery Manager combines real-time and historical views of userdefined service domains and simplifies the view into the health and avai labi lity of delivered
services. The dashboard automates the detection of service quality problems and emerging
security threats across physical, virtual, and cloud-based services from the application
hosting environment, through the network, to the user.

Capabilities
• Contextual service views into end-to-end service delivery with flexible userdefined service domain views that al low views from "single service" or "groups of
users" perspective that allow staff to visualize services in context with business
deployment
Shared, cross-indexed metrics and views eliminate the need to re-analyze incidents
as problems escalate across the IT organization and promote IT collaboration
• Un ified service representation that leverages data from pervasive nGenius
Intell igent Data Sources and correlates components of a "service" into a unified
view with a top leve l view reveals service status. Ouickly progress from high-level
service views within a selected service domain, to fl ow-based transactions, to deep
packet analysis-from a single integrated solution . Ouickly drill-down into a wide
range of contextual data, isolate a situation, triage its impact, and confidently take
next-step actions

NetScout Products and Solutions Reference Guide

11

(Capabilities continued)
Automated identification and reporting of service and network anomaliesnGenius Service Delivery Manager continuously monitors and analyzes application
and service traffic flowing across the network at multiple points and identifies
deviations in "normal" traffic, application and server usage. lsolate service
degradations before they impact the end user or lead to service meltdowns
Auto-l earning service, application, and network behav1or patterns, the system
self-tunes to adapt to changing service delivery conditions. The Genius networkbased anomaly detection engine is resident in each of the nGenius Intelligent Data
Sources to support large deployments and enable end-to-end visibil ity with highly
scalable analysis capabilities
• Integrated cyber threat management that leverages network-based anomaly
detection to identify risk, emerging threats, and cyber attacks that are often m1ssed
by signature-based security solutions. Automatically recognize potential emerging
threats characte rized by conditions such as changes in service behavior, resource
usage anomalies, server modification, or violations against a defined po licy. Receive
real-time, inte ll igent early warning when deviations or policy violations are detected
• lntegration into ArcSight ' ETR M platform provides richer, more meaningful alerts
that enable faster time to knowledge of anomalies, and better detection and
prediction of events. Extensive forensics enables much more granular event
analysis.
• Graphie service maps that illustrate the flow of each application and service across
the network by displaying the nGenius Intel ligent Data Sources and servers that
have seen the application or service
• Anytime, anyplace access to intel ligent alerts and summaries from wireless or
mobile PCs or handheld devices, enterprise desktops or Network Operation Center
(NOC) consoles

12

•
••
•••

•

.
~

Service Dashboard: Monitoring the health of business services, the intelligent combination of applications
and relevant network protocols, for an enterprise-wide view of end user experience

. Cl

•••
••
••
•
••

•••
•••

Service Map: Shows the service delivery chain for a service domain or a particular service to properly
understand which components are impacted by anomalous behavior and make proper optimization decisions

NetScout Products and Solutions Reference Guide

13

nGenius Performance Manager
The nGenius Performance Manager provides an unprecedented, unified end-to-end view
of service delivery, performance, and consumption from the data center to the end user.
Providing granular visibility into the most complex and demanding network environments,
nGenius Performance Manager leverages robust and pervasive packet flow data collected
by a comprehensive family of nGenius Intelligent Data Sources. Deployed across the
network, nGenius Intelligent Data Sources capture and analyze real-time IP traffic flows.
nGenius Performance Manager also leverages NetFlow and sFlow data from deployed
network devices to provide broader insight at key network aggregation points. nGenius
Performance Manager allows your organization to identify and resolve critical issues, as
well as proactively predict and prevent future issues before they impact the end-user.

Capabilities
• Unified view of a converged network environment with the ability to view voice,
video and data metrics side-by-side in the same easy-to-use workspace
• Application recognition and monitoring of well-known, custom-developed,
vi rt ualized, and Web-based applications and services
• Critical application and network performance metrics that identify interrelatio nsh ips
and interdependencies between applications over the network infrastructure
• Response lime analysis and latency metrics provide granu lar understanding of
application behavior with early detection of application performance degradation
and Ouality of Experience (OoE) issues
• Highly flexible reporting and analysis capabilities including long-term trending and
capacity planning with support for on-demand and scheduled reporting
• Unified monitoring of the network, applications and application server infrastructure
to include both physical and virtual environments
• Extensive VolP quality management capabi lities

14

• MTIP

" ,,

• ;;n~

v.thr
. :tMfP

,

___

,,~

_,

__ ,..,,,,_,_,.,,

......

_..

_...,_,,,- ....

.

CM

u

1000

"' c

~

DaQ1t1tAotdblft

0

lH(HCtl~f · 11111(J7515PMEOT

Unified Views: nGenius Performance Manager allows users tu quickly assemble, evaluate and compare
application and network-layer statistics tu determine the cause of issues and profile usage patterns tu
manage capacity and proactively avoid network slowdowns/outages.

.. . -

Robust Reporting: nGenius Performance Manager allers a broad variety of NewsPaper-style reports that
can be scheduled on a daily, weekly, monthly or custom-defined basis. ln addition any nGenius Performance
Manager workspace can instantly be turned into an ad-hoc report for easy sharing of information among
colleagues.

NetScout Products and Solutions Reference Guide

15

nGenius Trading Intelligence
nGenius Trading Intelligence is a high-performance, latency-management solution for
trading environments that addresses the specialized visibi lity needs of exchanges, buy-side
and sell side capital market firms.
nGenius Trading Intelligence provides real-time, end-to-end visibility into complex trade
order execution and market data feed latency and performance for trading environments.
Leveraging highly scalable and deployment-proven nGenius lnfiniStream appliances,
nGenius Trading Intelligence solution enables trade engineers to isolate delays, compare
venue execution routes, monitor trade activity, and track client access to better optimize
the performance and timing precision of !rades. Tracking end-to-end latencies can be
provided by:
Trading Groups
Instrument Code
Execution Venues
Trading Strategies
• Trade Paths
nGenius Trading Intelligence exposes nanosecond latency metrics that are dynamically
updated as !rades progress. These metrics pinpoint the latency and performance impact
caused by gateways, Smart Orcier Roulers (SORs), feed handlers, order books and
matching engines. Th e solution's dynamic multi-hop correlation capabilities deliver latency
breakouts for each monitored hop. This granu larity enables trade engineers to quickly
analyze, isolate, and identify latency bottlenecks.

Capabilities
• Provides messaging correlations and latency management for:
-

One way and two way latency
One to one trades
One to many !rades
Multiple and partial matches

• Simplifies correlatio n and analysis of complex trading transactions provide a
logical representation of the trade order path as it traverses from the trader's
console, through the trading environment, and back to the trader with the resulting
execution reports
• Generates dynamic tables comparing best and worst latencies, and associated
volumes by:
-

Trade desks
Execution venues
Symbol groups
Or any configurable field item

• Provides visibility into network microburst activity and enables intelligent alarms
for performance issues. The nGenius Trading Intelligence sol ution recognizes
hundreds of financial market data feed formats and protocols, including ARCA,
CME, LSE, NASDAO, NSX, NYSE, SIAC, TIBCO. lt also supports custom protocols.

16

(Capabilities continued)
• Addresses high data volumes with the t1ght 1ntegration of the nGenius lnfiniStream
appliances, to collect and analyze and store mass volumes of trading and market
data feed traffic on a distributed bas is, and the nGenius Trading Intelligence
application, secure, highly scalable and reliable deep packet capture and analysis
capabilities, ensure the integrity and compatibility of the collected data.
Deployed as a stand-alone latency-management solution or as an integrated
module of the nGenius Service Assu rance Solution , this integration enables
organizations to leverage their substantial investments in analytics and nGenius
Intel ligent Data Source technology to extend incremental and comprehensive
end-to-end service delivery management capabilities across their network
environment. When used with other nGenius Service Assurance solution modules,
organizations benefit from a range of service delivery management capabilities
that include availabi lity and performance management, capacity planning, service
validation, and forensics.
• Leverages an open API, th us extend ing Trading metrics to other platforms and
applications. Custom monitoring solutions can easily benefit from the robust
latency statistics provided by the solution

Latency Monitor - Fix

·-

--

.....

.

, ,,..

..._,.,..'r/'!W'lllC'••1111C1rMra..

•"11....,.x..

••1w·1....,a..~1

OlAll-2N'tlo.J4 1Ml\Ol!lt;t. :J.C-1
OIP"°'"l7Ul•R.1'1Glll'*'C!•~

:11

.....

., ,
'""

llî"O!l!:I.'&llllfl.01•1~1·''...:Jl!i•

•

'"0"4.

Pqettf••

'

l'PU.

1

.,,__)'lf,.,..O••llWIU'PA.0"
ICJ•
ti:""M.. •11111JWl~I~-,

•""'-

••t~U,'P\.1..

«l'Mll);'Pi!Ol

Wl~

'!IOH.•-11~'1ll-11

''
•

œw11xi1t•Ao••1so11n"«ll •
et•11J't'l:'·~..i.i.

.

H ......

•• ,\1}1l<o;'""'••

•

••11l't1,,...Jt1010t1W."'1'~°'

Gc•1111H}llliA..

•=t1WJ1IWC"-"\

'

oc•1'1ti~o·•1w111.~

•

OfYtlll'H~•ll

•

••1tQl1',..,"l.

lll•J1~01•1WJ11Ma..:Q.

••11?t,1).

''°'"'"·'"~

...

Ull
H ~·

'

~

0111fHXt>1 •,,__C'•IW711"W-•:l'.'l-·

ot.-i•r.1 r• 1'11.

tC1t111"'-~1i"''"'-'.

Latency Views: nGenius Trading Intelligence views provides highly accurate one-way and two-way trade
latency measurements.

NetScout Products and Solutions Reference Guide

17

Sniffer Analysis Modules
Sniffer Analysis Modules enable IT staff to perform highly granular packet analysis,
mining, and decode of packets captured and stored by nGenius lnfiniStream appliances.
Designed specifically for direct connection to an nGenius lnfiniStream appliance, the
Sniffer Analysis Module can be used within the nGenius Service Assurance Solution or
on a standalone basis to provide unprecedented granu lar packet forensic analysis that
enhances and simplifies troubleshooting. Th is packet-level analysis quickly pin points
performance anomalies and isolates root causes so the IT organization can rapidly salve
the most challenging and complex application and network performance issues.
The Sniffer Analysis Modules include the base module: Sniffer Intelligence, and
lnfiniStream Console; in addition to optional specialized add on modules: Sniffer Financial
Inte ll igence and Sniffer MultiSegment Analysis

Sniffer Intelligence Module
The Sniffer Intell igence Module is an application forensic analysis tool that provides
back-in-time, graphical views of the conversations traversing the network to speed
troubleshooting and analysis. Users can mix and match mu lti-dimensional views of
hundreds of preprocessed statistics to create customized charts that compare data,
profile applications or isolated anomalies. The Sniffer Intelligence base module is
provided with Sniffer Analysis at no additional cost and is deployed on the user's desktop.

Capabilities
• Automatic identification of popular packaged applications and next-generation
IP-based services
More than a hundred flow-based statistics and metrics including detailed server
and network response limes, TCP efficiencies, anomalies, and OoS levels
• Recognition of Voice over IP (Vo lP) call detail records
• Patented Hyperl ock'" multi-dimensional filtering speeds data retrieval and
expedites troubleshooting
• Comprehensive yet flexible views of the data
• ln dustry-leading Sniffer decodes and experts

18

....

. ..........

~

..,.

l~,,....

_,.

............ 1111' ....._,

~~

· I<

........ .... - ..
.
4

t•I~~

. . .........

.·-

. -"'

11.11

• .1• r:- "
i•....

l~

., . . . .

- 1• 1 • .....
.-..

-····· ..... ..·• -. .-1
.

Sniffer VolP Intelligence - Achieve higher quality audio and video service quality by analyzing VolP
packet-based call contrai and multimedia transmissions
Extends traditional Expert analysis and decode troubleshooting capabilities with customizable panel
views of performance measures and application transaction dimensions

NetScout Products and Solutions Reference Guide

19

lnfiniStream Console Software
The lnfiniStream Console is a direct-connect interface to nGenius lnfiniStream
appliances that is typically used for quick access in troubleshooting environments.
lnfiniStream Console software is run on the user's local desktop and acts as a portal into
the appliance. Stored packet data is directly accessed with unrestricted mining without
requiring an external server. The lnfiniStream Console provides a streamlined view to vital
data for troubleshooting high-priority issues. Although often used in standalone mode,
the lnfiniStream Console can serve as a complementary user interface with the nGenius
Service Assurance Solution that allows users to drill-down for granular deep packet
analysis from within the unified solution.

Capabilities
Direct connect to nGenius lnfiniStream appliances Io view and analyze native
packet data for unrestricted data mining and perform detailed forensic analysis on
network traffi c
• OuickSelect thumbnail overview of traffic over lime
• Merge multiple streams for a consolidated view
Automatically launches Sniffer Intelligence with decodes for detailed
troubleshooting analysis
• Ouickly reacts to service delivery issues using a "crash-cart" problem resolution approach
• Provides health statistics on the nGenius lnfiniStream appliance

Sniffer Financial Intelligence Software
Sniffer Financial Intelligence provides visibility into latency, service delivery, and compliance
for trading environments. Specifically designed for financial trading firms and exchanges,
Sniffer Financial Intelligence is an optional add-on application that is used with Sniffer
Intelligence. This combination provides detailed visibility into messaging protocols Io !rade
orders and hundreds of common data feeds critical Io automated trading.

Capabilities
Sniffer Financial Intelligence helps resolve problems within FIX or TradElect network,
reports on client latency/delivery, and determines if certain transaction types run faster
!han others.
• Automatically identifies trade applications, such as Financial Information eXchange
(FIX) and TradEl ect, breaking out the details of the individual orders
• Recogn izes more than 600 financial market data feeds, includ ing Arcabook, ARCAFAST, CME-MDP, IBM LLM, TIBCO, NASDAO UODF, OPRA FAST, and Russell 1000
Supplies enhanced lime stamping across nGenius lnfiniStream appliances using
GPS or COMA options Io correct for µsec drift where latency is critical
• Breaks out latencies by transport and the server transaction time
• lncludes more than one hundred flow-based statistics and metrics including detailed
server and network response times, TCP efficiencies, anomalies, and OoS levels
• Leverages patented Hyperlock mu lti-dimensional filtering to speed data retrieval
and expedite troubleshooting
• lndustry-leading Sniffer decodes and experts

20

t

1

..--

............._._

. 0 •

..
.

Financial Intelligence - FIX Intelligence - Trade Orders View

Sniffer MultiSegment Analysis
Sniffer MultiSegment Analysis is a post-capture analysis tool that automates and
simplifies the tedious process of matching packet traces across mu ltiple network
seg ments and streamlines the process of troubleshooting complex or multi-tiered
applications. Sniffer MultiSegment Analysis provides the IT organ ization an understanding
of application delivery across segments with graphical views of specific conversations.

Capabilities
• Automates and synchronizes conversation flows across multiple segments to
enab le complex application troubleshooti ng
• Provides a stru ctu re d drill-down approach to so lving complex performance
prob lems
• Visually depicts delays and networking anomalies
• Algorithmically correlates front-end Web transactions with SOL-based back-end
queries for multi-tiered applications
• Presents transactions from multiple network perspectives or combined together in
a multi-tiered view
• All ows dri ll down from higher-level reporting to the packet details
• Tracks and coord inates conversation fl ows across mu ltiple segments
• Monitors the delivery of mu lti-tier applications from a hop-by-hop perspective

NetScout Products and Solutions Reference Guide

21

IP PBX

nGenius
lnlrniStream 6900

SOL Oatabase Server

e-Marl Server

Active 01rectory Server

V1rtualized Serve1

~
nGemus V1rtual Agent

nGemus
lnf1mStream 6900

nGemus
lnlrniStream2900

22

nGerrius
WAN Probe

nGemus
lnf1mStream 6900

pp

MPLS

nGemus
lnhmStream 6900

www

-

· laupedConnec1K11

NetS cout Products and Solutions Reference Guide

23

NetFlow Analysis Modules
NetFlow Analysis Modules are specifically designed to collect Cisco NetFlow or sFlow
data from other popular network devices as their primary source of network traffic data.
Providing greater visibility in more places, these modules use flow records from network
infrastructure devices to provide action-oriented alerts that contain evidentiary details
and graphical charts used as the starting point to guide diagnosis. IT organizations can
easily dril l down for additional detai ls necessary to resolve problems.

nGenius Performance Manager for Flows
The nGenius Performance Manager for Flows leverages Cisco NetFlow or sFlow
data from popular network devices as their primary source of network traffic data. IT
organizations can easily drill down to nGenius Performance Manager for Flows for
additional details necessary to resolve problems. The nGenius Performance Manager
for Flows analyzes and maps NetFlow and sFlow data and IP SLA results gathered by
nGenius Collector appliances into the powerful real -time screens and historical reports
necessary for problem resolution and capacity plann ing activities.

Capabilities
• Gain an accu rate view of data contained within NetFlow and sFlow datagrams and
IP SLA test results
• View intelligent early warning alerts that contain evidentiary detai ls and graphical
summaries to quickly identify and resolve service delivery problems
• Receive Ouality of Service (OoS) configuration and statistical information from the
Cisco Class-based OoS (CBOoS) MIB including: discard packets, discard bytes,
and discard BIT rate
• View application, response time, and utilization data for easy enterprise-wide
analysis and reporting
• Manage and forecast capacity shortfalls by leverag1ng the core on-demand and
long-term reporting functionality of the nGenius Service Assurance Solution

24

ReapoetlH

t>St A_Tnts:ONS_PSl.A.1bl'libuledi,yR$p Tmt
151"1'W!orM

Ruponsu - PSLA_le9ts:ICPsock.di"91Îbut.a

~· .

Il

. !..""'
l u1---

."

~omc

O J01 •oomt
0 201-lc.Omt

,,,,,

101.JCOms
• ·• IO~m1

0

!Q lf)

lt Q(J

11

I~

rov
t:i~~t....O

nme

i

l\sflfll'l'lll!
Uttw.11;i1ri:t

1101 SCI01ns
0 )-0l •-30 11\t;
D lDl·Y.lOm•
101·1001"'

1

~.

. .. •IOOmt

'

0 OO
. ~#

(')

200

H IG

Il OO

100

1000

c-.. a
C]

L.ts.IHu.w- 111•'0el11'51 lNI EST

Respoofff . PSI A_ IHl1:UOP _ J"1et , dl11ubu1edbyR~ TiinM!
1'5rr"lfir(K(l'V. n

.•.

~Rsp

1$MltlrHalutilln

Rss,r..,.

QJ1j1tt.,...d

TOd-W · ln'1U81 1 1'513AMEST

Roponses PStA_hsts;OOCP _IPS1.A. dtsUlt:U.ed by Rsp ÎÎllM
1'51"\11'110.:Mo.lll~

Rsp

Jiu-..

. llnW!o il!ab~
101·100rns
51 1001'1'1S
O :n -~m1
11 ·Xlm1

• •;. 18rn

fblp fll'llll

t.ltlw.11.abe

a"

.tD1 S.JOm1

!- .
1

IOl·l!Xlms
• ·

<i

tog ... • •

RA POflM'I

IPSLA _ 1tst1~.chl11btlf~dbyRse>Tim•

fWSPOmn

15rninttlOfUllOJ'r

"lO

--

0.1 t4M-tl'!'H

10 '5

c

0

IPSLA_ lul1:"'1wo.k.thbibuftd~fbpfuw

1'5r'llt'lretoluf31'1

lïïillii
0
10''5

I OOMI

Rs,p l"lrlMI

. l,Jr\JI

Rlp
IAl:l!I

HJOt 1 ~00m,
101-H.100-mt

O saHOO mi
l-01 500mt;

• ..,.)(l(j,.,,

nm•

UnMlt.abe

101 ?OOmf.
0 ~H0,IYI
0 21 ~OITlt
11 20mt
• ••lttrnt

1100

"

, ... _.. G C 0

LJSl"!Ot.11' lnlî0811 l'511ol>ME-8T

nGenius Performance Manager for NetFlow - IP SLA: IP SLA tests are supported within nGenius Performance
Manager for NetFlow to actively measure network and application response time metrics and VolP quality.

nGenius Analytics for Flows
The nGenius Analytics for Flows leverages NetFlow conversation information collected
by nGenius Co llector appliances to automatically detect and aid in diagnosing anomalous
network and application usage. Inte lligent, action-oriented alerts contain evidentiary
details and graphical charts to identify and reso lve issues.

Capabilities
• Recognize and resolve network problems quickly and efficiently and to support
capacity planning initiatives
• Receive understanding of how users are accessing the services they need to
meet their business goals of application delivery across the network infrastructure,
including utilization, application responsiveness and OoS configuration
• lmprove service delive ry by automatically identifying anomalous behavior with
action-oriented alarms that provide powerful early warning of performance
degradations, min im izing the impact on the end user
• Receive visibi lity to enable proper planning for new technology initiatives and cost
justification when upgrades are needed
NetScout Products and Solutions Reference Guide

25

nGenius Intelligent Data Sources
NetScout offers a comprehensive family of Intelligent Data Sources that provide packet
flow-based visibility for all applications and services that fl ow across global networks.
NetScout Intelligent Data Sources range from intelligent deep packet capture and
analysis appliances that are deployed in strategic, high-bandwidth locations, to real-time
hardware and software probes and Cisco NetFl ow and sFlow collection devices.
Ali NetScout Intelligent Data Sources leverage the Common Data Model (CDM)
architecture. CDM is a NetScout technology innovation that creates a common set
of statistics and metrics across multiple data sources. These sources derive traffic
intell igence regardle ss of interface type-- IP, ATM, Frame Relay, NetFlow, etc. CDM
provides a high ly scalable technology foundation that feed s into the nGenius Service
Assurance Solution and enables consistent metrics across a broad-range of interfaces
and data sources. ln addition, the nGenius lnfiniStream leverages NetScout Adaptive
Session Intelligence™ for more granular real-time views into user sessions and
transactions across multi-domain environments.
nGenius Intelligent Data Source options for the nGenius Service Assurance Solution include:
• nGenius lnfiniStream Appliances - dedicated intelligent deep packet capture
appliances to support service assurance and unparalleled application and network
performance analysis
nGenius Probes - perform deep packet analysis and provide high-definition
application and network performance information to the nGenius Service
Assurance Solution. Probe technology extends pervasive visibility into the data
center through a range of deployment sources:
- nGenius Integrated Agent - deployed in third-party network devices such as
switches or routers
- nGenius Virtual Agent - deployed as an application inside virtual server
- nGenius Hardware Probes - deployed as traditional hardware-based
intelligent data source
• nGenius Collector - a hardware appliance that delivers NetFlow and IP SLA-based
data to the nGenius Performance Manager, nGenius Performance Manager for
Flows, and nGenius Analytics for Flows

nGenius lnfiniStream Appliances
The nGenius lnfiniStream appliance delivers highly scalable intelligent deep packet
capture and analysis capabilities for the long-term storage and retrieval of network
packets and statistics.The nGenius lnfiniStream appliances offer multi-core high
performance processing to enable local, distributed analysis of packets to support
intelligent capabilities such as voice quality analysis, and the generation of Extended
Data Records (xDRs) and Adaptive Session Records (ASRs). nGeni us lnfiniStream
appliances are deployed where detai led packet analysis and historical back-in-time
analysis is needed. Because the nGenius lnfiniStream appliance continually stores
packets to disk, it provides the native packet records to go back in time to understand
exactly how networked applications interrelate and to troubles hoot problems as th ey
happen. Packet and statistical data from nGenius lnfiniStream appliances can be
leveraged in a standalone analysis mode or as a dedicated data source to enable the
nGeniu s Service Assurance Solution.

26

nGenius lnfiniStream 7900 Series-is unique
to the industry with ils deep packet capture and
.
.
analysis capabilities, modularity, extensive storage
options - expanding from 32 TB to 96 TB- and
small form factor - 3RU to 9RU max. With higher
performance and the greater storage capacity
the nGenius 7900 Series appliance is designed for Service Provider environments, core
data centers and other sites that have 10 GbE interfaces and vast storage requirements.
Since it cornes in a modu lar format, the 7900 Series can expand as needs grow.

.

..
-

-

.

-

nGenius lnfiniStream 6900 Series-The industry
standard for packet flow intelligent deep packet
capture and analysis technology. Optimized for
~
speed , performance, and resilience, the 6900
Series provides storage capacity up to 16 TB, in
a single hardware-based appliance, redundant
power and RAID storage, hot-swappable drives and power supplies, and supports highcapacity links up to 10 GbE.

.

a;;;;,I

-- ~-~~~-=~~..:;.~-~.

-

nGen1us lnfiniStream 2900 Senes-A smallfootprint intelligent deep packet capture and
analysis appliance optimized for lower-utilized links
and sized to fit in space-constrained locations.
These models include 500 GB of storage for lower capacity links such as in the access
layer or where traffic volumes are lower.

Capabilities
• Linux ' -based, security-hardened with integrated manageability and per-device
access contrai
Continuously analyzes, creates robust CDM statistics and captures packets to
storage in real-time
• Generates real-time XDR, ASR, and AST records for supported applications and
protocols
• Provides efficient indexing for rapid retrieval and isolation of data
Flexible, non-intrusive deployment with standard network mirror port or link tap
technologies
• Hardware-based time-stamping and synchronization for millisecond granularity to
better track packets and flows
• Hot-swappable drives, redundant power sources, and RAID for locations that
require options fo r added reliability
• Ships with the Sniffer Analysis base modu le and includes lnfi niStream Console,
Sniffer Intelligence, and industry-leading Sniffer decodes and experts
• Supports multiple Ethernet interface connections from 10/1OO/1000 to 10 GbE
for copper or fiber
• Flexible storage options with storage capacity ranging from 500 GB to 96 TB

NetScout Products and Solutions Reference Guide

27

nGenius Probes
Th e nGenius Probes are hardware and software Intelligent Data Sources that perform
deep packet analysis and provide high-definition application and network performance
information to the nGenius Service Assurance Solution. Probes are strategically deployed
in high-bandwidth locations to generate key performance metrics for traffic, appl ication
and service utilization, conversations, error conditions, resource utilization, and response
lime. Probe technology extends pervasive visibility into the data center through a range of
deploymen t sources:
• nGenius Integrated Agent - deployed in third-party network devices such as
switches or routers
nGenius Virtual Agent - deployed as an application inside a virtual server
• nGenius Hardware Probes - deployed as traditional hardware-based Intelligent
Data Source

nGenius Integrated Agent
Th e nGenius Integrated Agent software is self-contained virtualized probe software
integrated and deployed within a third-party network device. Optimized for deployment
at the branch office and the network edge, the nGenius Integrated Agent feeds valuable
performance metrics into the nGenius Service Delivery Manager or the nGenius
Performance Manager and dramatical ly reduces costs associated with monitoring al the
branch and network edge by leveraging an existi ng third-party network platform as an
intelligent instrumentation point.
Delivering cost effective and scalable analysis of all traffic traversing the network, this
solution generates rich key performance metrics that include traffic, application and
service utilization, conversations, error cond itions, resource utilization, and response lime.
Th e nGeniu s Integrated Agent software provides IT organizations with a highly scalable,
predictive and preventative service del ivery management approach that id entifies and
resolves issues before users are impacted.

The nGenius Integrated Agent for Cisco ISR
Th e nGenius Integrated Agent for Cisco ISR cost-effectively integ rates industry-leading
NetSco ut probe technology into Cisco Integ rated Services Roulers to extend packet-fl ow
visibi lity to the branch envi ron ment. Optimized for deployment in the bran ch office, the
nGenius Integrated Agent for Cisco ISR provides the following capabil ities :
Cast-effective monitoring of traffic destined to and from the WAN
• Local troubleshooting for the branch LAN without the need to dispatch a
technician
• Achieve branch-to-branch monitoring for detai led visibi lity into decentralized
networks and cloud computing
• Accurate response l ime analysis and Key Performance lndicators from the branch
user perspective
• Validation of WAN optimized traffic
• End-ta-end views and reports from the data ce nter, through the core, out to the
bran ch

28

The nGenius Integrated Agent for HP
The nG enius Integrated Agent for H P ' is self-contained virtualized probe software
integrated and deployed within an HP E8200 or E5400 Switch Series to cost-effectively
extend granu lar packet-flow technology and provide visibility into network and application
performance at the network edge. Optim ized fo r deployment at the network edge, the
nGenius Integrated Agent for HP provides the fol lowing capabilities:
• Unprecedented visibility into IT Service Delivery from the datacenter to the network
edge and remote offices
• Predict and prevent service delivery perform ance issues by finding the root cause
at the edge before it impacts users
• Leverage existi ng technology investme nts to deliver always-on visibi lity into
traffic at the network edge and provide consiste nt and reliable se rvice delivery
management to all users regardless of location
• Assure business service continuity and achieve optimal user experience
End-ta-end views and reports from th e data center, throug h the core, out to the edge

nGenius Virtual Agent
The nGenius Virtual Agent extends the visibility of the nGenius Service Assurance
Solution into virtual computing environments. The nG en iu s Virtual Agent is easi ly
deployed within a virtual server and contained within a protected and dedicated
environment without impact to other virtual applications.
Bring ing visibi lity to traffic ins ide virtual ized serve rs, the nGenius Virtual Agent
extends NetScout Intelligent Data Source core technology to vi rtualized environments.
The nGenius Virtual Agent automatically discovers all appl ications and their
interdependencies and monitors al l traffi c on the hast hypervisor, providing visibility for
intra-server, inter-server and virtual server to physical server traffic.

Capabilities
Extend s nGenius probe techn ology for granular packet flow visi bility in vi rtu al
servers
• Provides unified views of applications and serv ices across virtual and physical
infrastru cture
• Provides short-term on-demand packet capture based upon user reque st or
defined triggers
• Identifies ap pl ication moveme nt to recog nize application additions, relocations, and
removals from the network perspective
• Uses Virtual TAP (v TAP) mode to forward packet flow traffic from with in a virtual
machine to an external lnfiniStream appliance for intel ligent deep packet capture
and analysis
• Supports VMware ' vi rtual server envi ronments

NetScout Products and Solutions Reference Guide

29

nGenius Hardware Probes
The nGenius Hardware Probes are
highly optimized Intelligent Data
Sources that perform deep-packet
analysis on network traffic and deliver
key application and performance
metrics to th e nGenius Service
Assurance Solution. Th e nGen ius Hardware Probes are ideally suited for deployment at
the WAN edge and network edge locations that do not require continuous capture and
storage of network packets.
Strategically distributed in high-bandwidth locations, nGenius Hardware Pro bes
generate key performance metrics that include traffic, application and service utilization,
conversations, error conditions, resource utilization, and response time.

Capabilities
• Analyzes ail network traffic in real time and generates metadata statistics for use in
the nGenius Service Assurance Solution
• Leverages the NetScout CDM architecture to provide unified metrics that scale
across multiple topologies and interfaces
• Automatically recognizes wel l-known, Web-based, peer-to-peer, and custom
applications
Generates network and application metadata, providing insight into the hosts and
traffic conversations such as traffic, application, and service utilizations
• Provides one-minute data-sampling granularity
• Tracks utilization, response times, OoS metrics, and VolP information
• Provides short-term on-demand packet capture based upon user request or
defined triggers
• Supports WAN and Gigabit Ethernet interface connections with support for fi ber
and copper links

30

nGenius Collecter
The nGenius Collector is a high-capacity, high-performance data source that is optimized
to collect NetFlow, sFlow, and IP SLA statistics for analysis by the nGenius Service
Assurance Solution. NetFlow- and IP SLA-enabled routers and switches provide a costeffective option to direct NetFlow datagrams and IP SLA test results to the nGenius
Collector. Collecting and delivering NetFlow and IP SLA data allows the nGenius Service
Assurance Solution to analyze and display this information in common formats and
reports along with data from other nGenius Intel ligent Data Sources.
Leveraging the unique CDM architecture, NetScout nGenius Collectors work with
nGenius analysis solutions to enable the collection, analysis and display of NetFlow, IP
SLA, MIB Il information, and data received from NetScout data collection devices. The
nGenius Performance Management System presents the NetFlow and IP SLA data,
including conversation information in context with information from other sources across
the network, automatically minimizing the time to analyze the data received from NetFlow
and IP SLA-enabled devices.

Capabilities
• The NetScout CDM architecture provides a universal format that scales across
multiple topologies and interfaces, including NetFlow, sFlow and IP SLA
Col lects NetFlow and sFlow metrics for many network switches and routers,
providing insight into the hosts and traffic conversations
Measures network performance and availability between IP SLA-enabled devices
and application server end points
• Recognizes well-known and custom application port and server associations
• Provides granular five-minute data-sampling
• Tracks utilization, response times, OoS metrics, and VolP data

NetScout Products and Solutions Reference Guide

31

Portable Network Analysis
Sniffer Portable Analyzer Family
The industry's original Sniffer technology, the Sniffer
Portable Analyzer software family provides on-demand
plug-and-play network analysis for wired and wireless
networks. ldeal ly suited for rapid response to network and
application issues on location in the field, these softwarebased solutions are bui lt on the industry's most advanced
and widely deployed Sniffer decodes and expert analysis
software. Leveraging a common technology foundation,
Sniffer Portable Analyzer software is available in a single standalone solution, or in an
enterprise-class solution that supports from 10 to hundreds of users with centralized
contrai and reporting of ils use on the network.

Sniffer Portable Professional Analyzer
The Sniffer Portable Professional Analyzer is a single-user portable network and
application analyzer that provides a high-level view of network traffic and application
performance using its dashboard view and drill-downs into deep packet analysis.
The dashboard displays important data about the network and creates statistical
measurements about network traffic, providing an accu rate picture of network activity in
real time. Network managers can easily drill down from the dashboard to view individual
hasts and protocols. The capture function collects and stores the actual packets from
the network. During capture, expert analysis is performed on packets and resu lts are
displayed in an easy-to-read, real time view.

Capabilities
• On-demand monitoring of network and application statistics for 10/ 1OO/1 000
Ethernet and wireless 802.11 a/b/g/n network segments
• Dashboard views wi th deep dri ll-down to rich packet-level analysis
• On-demand and post-capture decode of more than 500 protocols, including
popular VolP, financial, mobile, and wireless 802.11 a/b/g/n + 802.11 e/h
protocols
• Rich expert analysis to quickly identify errors during packet-level examination
• Robust filters and alarms to quickly identify and isolate network problems
• Wi-Fi device list inventories of all 802.11 a, 11 b, 11 g and 11n devices operating in
the wireless environment
• Encryption monitoring plus rogue access point and rogue client detection to
identify potential wireless security issues

32

Licensing

SingleUser

lntrnlive. easy-to-use dashboards
Supports wired (Ethernet 10/10011000) and wireless
(8021 1a/b/g/n) network links
Decodes 500+ protocols
Rich expert modes and alarms
Robust frlters and event lnggers
Wireless 802.1la/b/g/n + 802.1l e/hdecodes
W1reless encryptron monitoring
Automatic detection ol known and rogue W1-F1 dev1ces
Wirelessexpert
Funct1onahty access contrai. per-user/per-role
Centralized authenticat on for tool access
Onhne and offlme tool act1v1ty trackmg and reportmg
lntegration w1th Cisco 3300 Senes Mob1hty Services Eng1ne
Centralizedlicense. upgradeand patch management

•

•
•
•
•
•

•
•

10-User or Unlimited Enterprise

•

•

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
À

•

Sniffer Global Analyzer
Sniffer Global Analyzer extends enterprise-class functionality to the Sniffer Portable
Analyzer techno logy. Unlike other portable protocol analyzers, which give users fu ll,
uncontrolled access to network traffic traversing the wire, Sniffer Global Analyzer
offers a unique, centralized, policy-based access contrai system that governs how and
what a user can access on the network using the software-based client application.
An administrative server contrais user access to network data and analyzer functions,
monitors activity within the tool, and provides usage reports--plugging a commonly
overl ooked and dangeraus gap in security at many organizations. Sniffer Global is
available in a 10-user and unlimited-user license version, for deployment flexibility acrass
distributed and global organizations.

Capabilities
• Leverages ail capabilities found in the Sniffer Portable Prafessional Analyzer
software
• Centralized usage contra is on a per-user/per-rale basis to limit who can access
sensitive data using th e client application
• Policy-based user authentication to avoid compromising network or application
security
• Onlin e and offlin e user activity tracking and reporting for better auditing
• lnteg ration with the Cisco 3300 Series Mobility Service Engine (MSE) to display
physical location of wi reless devices in context with relevant wireless performances
metrics
• Centralized license, upgrade and patch management to assure consistency and
transparency acrass multiple IT audiences and geograph ies
NetScout Products and Solutions Reference Guide

33

Third-Party Enterprise Management Systems lntegration
NetScout collaborates with best-in-class technology partners to provide integrated
solutions and extend the value of the nGenius Service Assurance Solution for application
and network performance management across the enterprise.
Our integrated partner offerings leverage packet-flow data, Key Performance lndicators
(KPl s) and other performance information derived from the nGenius Service Assurance
Solution, to enhance an organization's ability to optimize, protect, and simplify the service
delivery environment and consequently, the business.
ArcSight

X

ArcSight, an HP company, is a leader in Network and Security
Information Management, delivers mission-critical solutions for
AnHPcomp•.Y
security, network and IT operations that enab le enterprises to
turn operational data into action. ArcSight solutions address today's complex enterprise
networks that span multiple organizations and corporate business initiatives. By
comprehensively col lecting, analyzing, managing and responding to security and network
data, ArcSight solution s mitigate information risk for real-time threat management,
compliance reporting and automated network response. ArcSight's customer base
includes leading global enterprises, governme nt agencies and MSSPs.

ArcS ~ ht~
1

NetScout-ArcSight Partnership
The NetScout nGenius Service Assurance Solution is certified and supports the ArcSight
Common Event Format (CEF) connector to deliver automated real-time alerts to the
ArcSight Logger, ArcSight ESM and ArcSight Express™ platforms. ArcSight CEF integration
enables plug-and-play deployment, so that on connection, nGenius solution alerts can
be immediately leveraged by the ArcSight platform without add itional configuration
or tuning. ArcSight CEF compliance ensures interoperability and support between
platforms and enables customers to have seam less future compatibi lity as each product
evolves. Complementary to the threat management capabil ities of ArcSig ht, NetScout
solutions bring incremental value to both ArcSight and NetScout customers. The nGenius
Service Assurance Solution provides:
• Enterprise-wide threat correlation
• Network-based anomaly detection
lmproved visibi lity of faults and threats
User and service based context
• Rapid drill-down functionality to identify root-cause
ArcS1ght Partner Des1gnation and Certifi cation
NetScout Systems, lnc. is a registered member of the ArcSight Technology All iance
prog ram. ArcSight forms technology partnerships with solution providers. Alliance
certification to ensures that members' products and technologies have verified
interoperabi lity, and provide complimentary technologies to deliver a complete end-to-end
secu re network solution to thei r customers.

34

Cisco Systems
, ij1.ij1 .
CISCO
OEVELOPER

Cisco Systems, lnc. is the worldwide leader in networking for the Internet.
Today, networks are an essential part of business, education, government
and home communications, and Cisco Internet Protocol-based (IP)
networking solutions are the foundation of these networks.

Ne!Scout-Ci .co Partriersh1p
Building on a long history of joint technology development Cisco and NetScout continue
to deliver value-add ed solutions to provide network and service delivery assurance across
a wide range of Cisco technologies, including:
Cisco Unified Wireless Networks
Cisco Unified Communications
Integrated with Cisco Integrated Services Routers (ISR) via the Application
eXtension Platform (AXP)
NetScout solutions bring incremental value to bath Cisco and NetScout customers by
complementing Cisco management capabi lities and builds on a base of mutual customer
and channel relationships.
Cisco Partner Designat1on and Certification
NetScout Systems, lnc. is a registered member of the Cisco Developer Network (CON),
which ensures that members' products and technologies have verified interoperabi lity,
adhere to strict standards, and offer exciting new capabi lities for Cisco joint customers.
NetScout was the first management vendor in the Cisco Ecosystem for Cisco Motion and
Un ified Wireless Solutions to integrate location information from Cisco Unified Wireless
Networks.
NetScout is a member of the Cisco Compatible Extensions program, which ensures
the widespread availability of client devices that are interoperable with a Cisco WLAN
infrastructure and take advantage of Cisco innovations for enhanced secu rity, mobility,
quality of service, and network management.

NetScout Products and Solutions Reference Guide

35

Citrix

Citrix Systems, lnc., is a leading provider of virtual computing solutions
that help companies de live r IT as an on-demand service. Citrix co mbi nes
-;:eaJy~
virtualization, networking, an d cloud computing tec hn ologies into a ful l
portfolio of products that enable virtual workstyles for users and virtual
datacenters for IT. More than 230,000 organizations worldwide rely on Citrix to help
them build simpler and more cost-effective IT environments.

CÎTRIX

NetScout-Citrix Partnership
NetSco ut applies its CDM techno logy to identify and mo nitor Ci trix ' MetaFrame "
Presentation Server traffic flows and Citrix-hosted applications and maps them to the
powerful real-time and historical analysis views and reports available in the nGenius
Service Assurance Solution.
NetSco ut Performance Management Solutions meet both network and application
managers' need for ensuring optimal performance of applications in Citrix dep loyments
by makin g it possible for IT staff to easily:
Monitor and track each published Citrix-based application individually, simplifying
perfo rmance management and troubleshooting.
Evaluate Citrix uti lization by recognizing and understanding existing network
patterns and identifying Citrix traffic flows and applications running over the
network.
• Maxim ize the performance of Citrix MetaFrame Presentation Server
implementations by analyzing passive and active application response time metrics
for individual Citrix applications and pinpointing application degradations for faster
resolution.
Citrix Partner Des1gnatron and Certification
NetScout is a Citrix Charter Al liance Partner

EMC lonix Control Center (former/y SMARTS)

EMc'

~

r•

VELOCITY'

1sv

EMC provides the systems, software, and services to leverage one of your most
strategic assets-your business data. Our goal is to optimize your information
infrastructure to meet growing demands for enterprise content management,
security, archivi ng, storage, and virtualization.

PROGRAM

NetScout-EMC Partnership
NetScout integrates nGenius Service Delivery Manager and nGenius Performance
Manager with the fo llowing EMC ' lonix™ for IT Operations products :
• EM C lonix Service Assurance Manager
• EMC lonix IP Avai lability Manager
• EMC lonix Discovery Manager
The NetScout-EMC lonix integration provides joint customers wi th complementary
visibility into the packet-flow data within the service-delivery environment and a bidi rectional workflow between the nGeni us Solution and EM C lonix. The integration
incl udes th e followi ng functionality:

36

Forwarding of nGenius data source and server-based alarm s to deliver the
packet-flow data that is critical in managing today's most complex service-delivery
environments
• A centralized view of network and application performance eve nts conso lid ated
with in the same console for real-time event notification
Intelligent, action-oriented nGen iu s solution alerts that aid in the diagnosis of
service-impacting problems
• Context-sensitive drill-down into nGenius and nGenius Performance Manager to
accele rate problem reso luti on
EMC Partner Designation and Certification
NetScout is an EMC Velocity2 Technology and ISV Partner and leverages the EMC Velocity2
ISV Program to build solutions integrated with EMC platforms. The nGenius-lonix integration
received lonix certification, which provides assurance to customers that an offering has met
or exceeded high standards set by EMC fo r integration with EMC platforms.

Hewlett-Packard
HP is a technology company that operates in more
than 170 countries around the world. We explore how
technology and services can help people and companies
address their problems and challenges, and realize their possibilities, aspirations and
dreams. We apply new thinking and ideas to create more si mple, valuable and trusted
experiences with technology, conti nuously improving the way ou r customers live and work.

HP Software

Certified Application

I

NetScout-HP Partnersh1p
NetScout has product integrations with HP Network Node Manager i-series (NNMi),
HP Business Availability Center (BAC), and the HP Networking AllianceONE Advanced
Services zl Module. Th is allows our customers to seam lessly integrate NetScout's
nGenius Service Assurance Solution with H P NNMi and BAC. The nGenius Integrated
Agent fo r HP Networking's AllianceONE Advanced Services zl Mod ul e turns HP E8200
and E5400 switch series platforms into intelligent data sources for NetScout's nG eni us
Service Assu rance Solution. NetScout's partn ership with HP provides our joint customers
a unified and consistent approach to managing service delivery from the data center to
the network edge.
HP Partner Designation and Certification
NetScout lnc. has a long standi ng relationship with HP and is a Gold Bu siness Partner in
HP's Enterpri se Management Alliance Program and a HP AllianceONE partner.
nGenius Performance Manager and nGenius Service Delivery Manager has been
certi fied by HP to integ rate with:
• HP Allian ceONE Advanced Services zl Module
• HP Bu siness Availability Center (BAC)
• HP Network Node Manager i-series (NNMi)
Certification wi th HP validates the interoperability of the nGen ius Integrated Agent
with the H P All ianceONE Advanced Services zl Module. The AllianceONE Integ rated
Certification is independently awarded by App l abs to verify the application meets the
AllianceO NE SDK speci fi cation and is interoperable with th e HP AllianceONE Advanced
Services Modu le.
NetScout Products and Solutions Reference Guide

37

Certification with HP BTO solu tions HP BAC and HP NNM i signi fies that HP tested the
NetScout Solution against established criteria and verified its compatib il ity. The certification process invo lves seve ral weeks of interactive integration testing by HP engineers in
coope ration with the partner's development team.

IBM
i;@GijJ.j

IBM ' is working with its clients to develop new business designs
and technical architectures that allow their businesses the fl exibility
required to compete in this new landscape. Th e business is also
adjusti ng its footprint toward emerging geographies, tapping their
double-digit growth, providing the technology infrastructure they need, and taking advantage of the talent pools they provide to better service the company's clients.

Tivoli

NetScout- IBM Partne1ship
NetScout • Systems, lnc. nGen ius Performance Manager and nGen ius Service Delive ry
Manager integrates with IBM Tivoli ' Netcool ' /OM IN bus
Th e integ ration between NetScout and IBM platforms provides users with expanded
reach of thei r Event Management Systems (EMS) by combining integrated fault management and service delivery assurance into a sing le integrated console view with a
seam less troubleshooting workflow. Th e IBM Tivoli Netcool/OMNlbu s lnteg ration Modu le
is made available, maintained and supported by IBM. The integratio n package is avai lable
for download from the IBM Ti voli Open Process Automation Library (OPAL) site.
IBM Partner Designation and Certification
NetScout is an IBM ' PartnerWorld member, and has been awarded "Ready fo r IBM
Tivoli Software" valid ation status to nGenius Performance Manager and nGen ius Service
Delivery Manager.
"Ready for IBM Ti vol i Software" validation status sig nifi es that IBM has tested the
NetScout Solution against established crite ria and verifi ed its com patibility with IBM Ti vo li
products.

38

NetScout Global Support and Services
NetScout offers a full range of technical support, consulting and training services to help
customers maximize their investment in the NetScout solutions.

MasterCare
MasterCare 5M is the NetScout industry-leading global support service. With four global
technical support centers, NetScout is dedicated to providing a rich variety of award-winning services that support the business objectives of our customers, lower their total cost
of ownership, and maximize the value of their investment in NetScout technology.

MasterCare Highlights
Having access to the right resources at the right time is invaluable when assistance is
needed. That's why the MasterCare Support program provides:
• 24x7 access to award-winning technical support staff
• One-hour priority response on technical support calls (after business hou rs by
phone on ly)
• Access to software and firmware updates for covered products
• Advanced replacement or onsite repair of most hardware
• Access to technical self-help on the MasterCare Portal
Up-to-date knowledge transfer and best practices via the Online Learning Center
Free subscriptions to the MasterCare newsletter
• Discounts to the annual NetScout Engage user conferences
For those customers who need even more advanced support options, the NetScout support organization offers Technical Account Manager, Onsite Engineer and Remote Site
Engineer programs as described below:
Technical Account Manager (TAM)-The TAM is a regional NetScout engineer
assigned to a specific customer account to shepherd incident-driven product
issues or other concerns on the organization's behalf; the TAM is able to help
resolve issues faster and more effectively, resulting in a better return on investment
and a lower total cost of ownership
Remote Site Engineer (RSE)-An RSE is a NetScout support engineer who
spends 20 hours per week dedicated to monitoring and managing the customer's
NetScout environment remotely from a NetScout location; in addition to acting as
the customer's primary point of contact into the NetScout support organization, the
RSE provides remote assistance with day-to-day, backend administration of the
customer's NetScout environment
Onsite Engineer (OSE)- For the most mission-critical environments, NetScout
offers the OSE, a full-time Level-3 engineer hired and trained by NetScout, but
who resides at the customer location to offload the planning, deployment and dayto-day mainte nance of the customer's NetScout environment, freeing the network
operations team to take advantage of NetScout solutions to troubleshoot problems
or tackle other strategic activities

NetScout Products and Solutions Reference Guide

39

Professional Services
Many of today's network management and support organizations are operating with
increased workloads and limited staffing, leaving fewer resources avai lable for deploying
new services or solutions, or for taking a more proactive approach to service assurance.
Many leading global enterprises, lier-one service providers, and government agencies
around the world have turned to NetScout to optimize, protect, and simplify their network infrastructure, applications, and services. Having selected the world-class nGenius
Service Assurance Solution for unified management of service delivery, the next step in
the value chain is to begin using it efficiently. NetScout Professional Services provides a
robu st set of services to help customers get up and running effectively and expeditiously,
and to accelerate ROI.
The NetScout Professional Services team offers a broad portfolio of deployment, specialized and industry-focused consulting services, including:
Deployment Services
• nGenius lmplementation-Focuses on installing and configuring the nGenius
Service Assurance Solution to optimize and accelerate the customer's ability to
quickly resolve service delivery issues
• Knowledge Transfer-Employs mentoring and hands-on learning within an
organization's network environ ment to increase IT staff proficiency with NetScout
solutions and technologies
nGenius Service Delivery Manager Ouick Start-Provides deployment assistance
to enable network management staff to quickly start reaping the benefits of the
nGenius Service Delivery Manager services-aware das hboard and early warning
system
Spec1alized Services
• nGenius Service Delivery Manager Optimization- Defines, tunes and configu res an
organization's most critical business services and applications to provide maximum
value from nGenius Service Delivery Manager
• Health Check-A quarterly review of the nGenius Solution environment to assure
that changing business objectives and performance management needs are being
optimally met
Virtualization Services-Three distinct services designed to facilitate the successful
adoption and management of virtualized environments with in the nGenius Service
Assurance Solution
DoD Certification and Accreditation-Provides review, remediation and
documentation support to help implement STIG certifications within government
networks in a timely manner

T usted lrterne Connectior (TIC) Compliance-Assists government agencies wi th
meeting two key requirements of the TI C initiative: capturing and storing seven
days of packet data for easy, post-incident analysis, and archiving 30 days of
captured data fo r longer term analysis

40

lndu,,try

Se r vice~

F1nanc1al Services Network Assessment-Baseline, document and provide
recommendations on the overall health of trading environments to help identify
delays in market data delivery and execution
• Market Feed Operations Rev1ew-Proactively monitor the scheduled and published
changes in market feed standards and implement ail necessary changes to assure
real-time, packet-level visibility into the performance of the nGenius Service
Assurance Solution

NetScout P1oducts and Solutions Reference Gu ide

41

Sniffer University
Sniffer University provides a wide variety of comprehensive training programs designed
to educate network professionals on NetScout technologies to effectively analyze,
troubleshoot, and mitigate performance issues. Sniffer University utilizes a variety of educational approaches, allowing students to chose the option that best meets their needs
and individual learning style, including:
Face-Io-face classroom instruction-Live Virtual lnstructor-led training classes or
onsite at customer locations
Subscript1on-based training programs- Long-term or company-wide training plans
to maximize the benefits of NetScout solutions
On-demand tra1111ng -Self-paced tutorials of Sniffer University's most popular
courses and technical documentation
Community peer tra1n1ng -NetScout users contribute best practice advice in the
online NetScout User Forum (NUF)
Onl 111e lea1 ning portals-Customized microsites created on a per-organization
basis to allow students to access training information remotely regardless of their
location , and to gain valuable instruction through self-paced training courses,
related documentation and online interaction with Sniffer University instructors
Sniffer Un1vers1ty Courses
Sniffer University offers intensive two, three, or five-day classes on how to more effectively use and salve problems with the NetScout Service Assurance Solution and specific
products. Detailed technology courses on everything from TCP/IP, to Windows " troubleshooting, to 1Pv6 technology are also available. The curriculum is 50 percent lecture, 50
percent labs for a "learn by doing, try it now" experience that facilitates the rapid transfer
of knowledge so that students gain ski lis they can use the first day back on the job.
These courses are designed and led by h1ghly experienced instructors who have trained
more than 100,000 students since 1990.
Multi-Level Cert1f1cat1on Programs
Sniffer University offers a range of certification programs that enable students to build
their level of expertise with the nGenius Service Assurance Solution and use that expertise to help their organization meet operational and business goals. There are three levels
of certification:
nGen1us Certif1ed Profess1onal (nCP)-Designates broad understanding in the
use of nGenius Performance Manager to monitor and troubleshoot network and
application performance
nGe111us Cert1f1ed Analyst (nCA)-Designates broad understanding of packet
analysis concepts and techniques to monitor and troubleshoot network and
application performance
nGen1us Cert1f1ed Expert (nCE)-lndicates advanced knowledge of the Internet
Protocol (IP) suite, network troubleshooting and how to optimize application
performance
nGenius Cert1f1ed Master (nCM)-Demonstrates an advanced understand1ng of
network and application troubleshooting techniques, networking technology and
application principles, and the use of NetScout software and instrumentation

42

NetScout User Forum (NUF)
A customer-driven user group, NetScout User Forum is dedicated to providing the
NetScout user community with a network of peers for collaboration and information sharing. Th e group's mission is to "share practical experience, promote technical understanding, and provide expert insight into deploying NetScout products for maximum business
value."
Membership is open to ail NetScout customers and entitles users to:
Join the online blog and forum discussions
Participate in private podcasts, webinars and other special events
Share tips and ask technical questions on the message board
Gain exclusive access to product news, downloadable files, and much more
Provide product feedback and ideas to the product development process Visit
www.ne sco _i(u ;erforum. on for details about how to join the NUF community.

Engage Annual User Summit
Th e Engage User Summit brings together NetScout customers tram around the globe
for advanced learning, networking, and sharing of ideas. The confe rence featu res presentations tram NetScout executives and customers, individual ized training labs, roundtable
and panel discussions, demonstrations of new products, and interactive discussions on
future product direction.

