nTAP™ Product Family

Provides monitoring and security devices with complete visibility into full-duplex networks
Network Instruments’ nTAPs let you monitor and analyze full-duplex links. nTAPs are critical components for network management because they provide
complete and accurate access to live traffic streams. Without an nTAP, a monitoring device may be fed incomplete and misleading information: creating false
alarms and missing problems that actually do exist.
Network Instruments’ nTAPs ensure complete visibility into full-duplex network links without compromising network performance, filtering out physical
layer errors, or risking costly downtime. Regardless of link type, device type, or analysis tool, there is an nTAP solution that fits your needs and budget.
nTAPs are ideal for organizations using analysis tools such as:
• Network analyzers
• Forensic appliances
• Remote monitoring appliances
• Intrusion detection systems (IDS)
• Security monitoring devices

Analysis Device
Intrusion Detection
System

Router
Server Farm

Aggregator nTAP
Server
Distribution

Copper nTAP

Core

Optical nTAP

Forensic Device

Analysis Device

Aggregator Copper nTAPs
Aggregator nTAPs provide a copy of the data from full-duplex copper links integrated into a single stream to an analysis or security device with a
standard (single-receive) capture interface.
Aggregator nTAP

• Contains a 256 or 512 MB buffer designed to cache network traffic spikes that exceed an
analyzer’s capture capacity
• Auto-negotiates to support 10 Mb, 100 Mb, or 1000 Mb network traffic
• Optionally transfers 10 Mb or 100 Mb input from the network to an analyzer connected
to a gigabit link, eliminating the chance of dropped packets from buffer saturation
Aggregator Conversion nTAP

• Contains a 256 or 512 MB buffer designed to cache network traffic spikes that exceed an
analyzer’s capture capacity
• Streams full-duplex traffic on a single TAP into two different optical or copper singlereceive devices
• SFP-based outputs supports the use of an SX, LX, or ZX device

Redundant Power Supply
A redundant power supply is available for all copper nTAPs. By adding a second power supply, an nTAP will continue to send data to the analysis device
if the primary power supply fails. If both power sources fail, network traffic will continue to pass through the nTAP.
Supports Redundant Failover Links
All copper nTAPs have the ability to support redundant failover links. If the link on one side of the nTAP goes down, the nTAP will automatically bring
down the other link, allowing the corresponding device to switch over to a redundant link.

AnalysisDevices
Devices
Analysis

Example of an Aggregator nTAP deployment

I
opper
0 Mb C

ce
nterfa

/100

10/100

t

der tes

Link un

Switch
Switch
Server
Server

Full-Duplex Copper nTAPs
Full-duplex copper nTAPs provide a complete copy of data from full-duplex copper links at line rate for monitoring or security devices.
10/100 Full-Duplex Copper nTAP

• Transfers a copy of 10 Mb or 100 Mb traffic from a full-duplex copper link to a copper
monitoring device
• Connects to the full-duplex link under test and an analyzer equipped with a dual-receive
capture card

10/100/1000 Full-Duplex Copper nTAP

• Transfers a copy of gigabit traffic from a full-duplex copper link to a copper monitoring
device
• Auto-negotiates to also support 10 Mb and 100 Mb networks
• Connects to the full-duplex link under test and an analyzer equipped with a dual-receive
capture card

10/100/1000 Full-Duplex Copper to Optical Conversion nTAP

• Supports the use of copper or optical monitoring devices
• Connects to the full-duplex link under test, and a copper or optical analyzer equipped
with a dual-receive capture card
• SFP-based outputs supports the use of an SX, LX, or ZX device

Redundant Power Supply
A redundant power supply is available for all copper nTAPs. By adding a second power supply, an nTAP will continue to send data to the analysis device
if the primary power supply fails. If both power sources fail, network traffic will continue to pass through the nTAP.
Supports Redundant Failover Links
All copper nTAPs have the ability to support redundant failover links. If the link on one side of the nTAP goes down, the nTAP will automatically bring
down the other link, allowing the corresponding device to switch over to a redundant link.

Example of a Copper to Optical Conversion nTAP deployment

r

A

Link

B A

Copper

B

Analyze

A

Optical

B

face
l Inter cables
a
ic
t
p
l
O
optica
al SFP
Optiondard duplex
an
Two st
<or>

10
100
1000

opper
0 Mb C

ce
Interfa

/100

10/100

Analysis Device

t
der tes

Link un

Switch
Server

Full-Duplex
Full-DuplexOptical
OpticalnTAPs
nTAPs
Full-duplex optical nTAPs provide a complete copy of data from full-duplex optical links at line rate for monitoring or security devices.
One-Channel Optical nTAP

Two-Channel Optical nTAP

Three-Channel Optical nTAP

1U nTAP Rack-Mount Configuration

Configuration
Optical nTAPs support gigabit single-mode and multimode, as well as 10 GbE traffic. Multiple split ratios are available to meet the needs of any network.
Design
Optical nTAPs are designed with LC connectors that are far more compact than the more common SC connectors. As a result, a single nTAP unit can
support one, two, or three channels. Up to nine full-duplex links can be supported in a single 1U rack panel. nTAPs supporting different media types
can be conveniently mixed and matched within a rack panel.
Connection
An optical nTAP connects to the full-duplex link(s) under test and an analyzer equipped with a dual-receive capture card. Analyzer cables are available
to ensure this connection is made without error.

Example of
of an
an Optical
Optical nTAP
nTAP deployment
deployment
Example

ble
zer ca
Analy

Analysis Device

est
nder t

Link u

Server

Switch

Different Methods to Access Network Traffic
Ensuring complete visibility of network data is the first critical component of analysis. There are two common ways for a monitoring device to access network traffic: using a
switch’s SPAN session (also known as port mirroring) or a network TAP (Test Access Port).
SPAN Session
A SPAN session functions best on lightly used, non-critical networks. In a SPAN session, the switch copies the TX (send) and RX (receive) data channels, reconstructing the
integrated data stream. It then routes the integrated signal through the send channel of the SPAN port to a monitoring device. Because both channels are integrated into a
single send channel, the SPAN port can only support a maximum of 50 percent of link utilization. Networks running business-critical or bandwidth-intense applications, like
VoIP, are not appropriate environments for a SPAN port.
A SPAN session also presents the following risks:
• A switch filters out physical layer errors, which can hamper some types of analysis
• There is an extra burden on a switch’s CPU to copy all data passing through the ports, potentially affecting timestamping accuracy
• A SPAN port hides jitter from the monitoring device, critical to VoIP and other applications that rely on very precise packet timing analysis
session
SPANsession
InInaaSPAN

integrating
signal,integrating
full-duplexsignal,
thefull-duplex
copiesthe
CPUcopies
switch’sCPU
theswitch’s
the
port.
SPANport.
theSPAN
routedtotothe
signal,routed
TXsignal,
oneTX
intoone
TXinto
RX&&TX
RX

A Full-Duplex nTAP provides pass-through signals
for network traffic, and separate copies of both
TX and RX signals to a monitoring device.

Server

Server
Switch

Traffic Potential (Mbps):
1000 (TX)
+1000 (RX)
2000 (full-duplex)

Analysis Device
Maximum Analysis
TX Bandwidth:
1000 Mbps

Analysis Device

Dual-receive analyzer
receives the full-duplex
traffic (2000 Mbps) with no
error filtering or packet loss.

Switch

Aggregator TAP
An aggregator TAP makes a good compromise between the SPAN and full-duplex TAP options for low to moderate utilization links. The aggregator TAP provides access to data
streams passing through a full-duplex network link, copying both sides of the link. Both sides of the link are then aggregated into a single stream. The integrated stream is
then sent out a simplex port to an analysis devices with a single-receive capture interface.
Its advantage over a SPAN is that the aggregator TAP buffers the analyzer output, which makes it less likely than a SPAN to drop packets during short spikes of high usage.
However, under sustained high utilization (over 50%), an aggregation TAP will drop packets. The aggregator TAP will also forward layer 1 and 2 errors to the analysis device,
which are essential for certain types of analysis.
An aggregator TAP is ideally suited for:
• A light to moderately used network that occasionally has utilization peaks above the capture capacity of the analyzer
• Working with an analysis device with a standard (single-receive) capture interface, such as a laptop or standard system with an analysis device
Full-Duplex TAP
A TAP is a passive mechanism installed between “devices of interest” on the network. The TAP can be placed, for example, between a server and switch, or a router and
firewall. Full-duplex TAPs transmit both the send and receive data streams simultaneously on separate dedicated channels, ensuring that all full-duplex data (up to 2000
Mbps) arrives at the monitoring device in real time. For that reason, the monitoring device must be equipped with a dual-receive capture card capable of recombining the
two data streams.
Full-duplex TAPs are ideal for ensuring visibility of highly utilized full-duplex links because:
• A full-duplex TAP never drops packets, regardless of speed or utilization
• A full-duplex TAP does not filter out physical layer errors from the monitoring device
• A full-duplex TAP is completely passive; it does not interfere with full-duplex networks

nTAPs FAQs

Optical nTAP Technical Specifications

Q: Does an nTAP require power?
A: The Optical nTAPs do not require power to operate. The
full-duplex and Aggregator copper nTAPs require power to
copy the data stream and send it to the monitoring device.
However, the data stream continues to pass through the
nTAP, even if power fails.
Q: My copper analysis device has a single-receive port.
Which nTAP would be the best to use?

Dimensions
Depth

7.66 in / 19.46 cm

Width (faceplate)

5.85 in / 14.86 cm

Width (box)

4.55 in / 11.56 cm

Height (faceplate)

1.10 in / 2.79 cm

Supported Media
Fiber Type

Multimode

Single-mode

A: The copper Aggregator nTAP is specifically designed for
this purpose.

Connector

LC

LC

Fiber Diameter(s)

50 μm or 62.5 μm

9 μm Fiber

Wavelengths Supported

850 nm or 1300 nm

1310 nm

Q: Will nTAPs drop packets?

Maximum Insertion Loss by Split Ratio (dB)

A: It depends on the nTAP and the environment.
Full-duplex nTAPs
Full-duplex nTAPs will not drop packets. It is critical that
they be connected to a specialized, full-duplex analyzer
capable of receiving two separate streams of data and
recombining the streams for analysis.
Aggregator nTAPs
It is possible for Aggregator nTAPs to drop packets. When
network traffic coming into the Aggregator nTAP exceeds
the capture capacity of the analyzer, the TAP will cache the
data that the analyzer is unable to receive.
Q: What split ratio do I need when deploying an
optical nTAP?
A: While we recommend that you always test the strength of
your optical signal with a meter, if all devices between the
connections are within 30 meters of the nTAP, a 50/50 split
ratio is ideal. For longer hauls, it may be necessary to choose
a split ratio that diverts more of the signal to the distant
device.
You should first determine the signal strength capabilities
and requirements of your monitoring equipment, as well
as the send power and receive sensitivity for the devices
on either side of the link being monitored.

Multimode 62.5 μm

Multimode 50 μm

Single-mode 9 μm

1300 nm

850 nm

1300 nm

850 nm

1310 nm

50/50

3.9/3.9

4.7/4.7

4.5/4.5

5.5/5.5

3.6/3.6

60/40

3.0/5.0

3.8/5.7

3.7/5.6

4.7/6.6

2.8/4.8

70/30

2.3/6.3

3.0/7.0

2.9/7.0

3.9/8.0

2.0/6.1

80/20

1.7/8.3

2.4/9.0

2.3/9.0

3.2/10.0

1.3/8.0

90/10

1.2/12

1.9/12.5

1.8/12.8

2.7/13.5

.8/12.0

Copper Full-Duplex and Aggregator nTAP Technical Specifications
Dimensions
Depth

7.66 in / 19.46 cm

Width (faceplate)

5.85 in / 14.86 cm

Width (box)

4.55 in / 11.56 cm

Height (faceplate)

1.10 in / 2.79 cm

Supported Media
Copper Interface
Link A / Link B (link under test)

RJ45 Ethernet

Copper Analyzer Interface

RJ45 Ethernet

SFP Interface (conversion nTAPs only)
SX (850 nm)

1000BaseSX, LC connector

LX (1310 nm)

1000Base, LC connector

Regulatory Compliance (All Copper and Aggregator nTAPs)
Emissions

FCC Part 15 Class B

CE Mark

EN61000-3-2, EN55024, EN55022A

About Network Instruments
Network Instruments provides in-depth network intelligence and continuous network availability through innovative analysis solutions. Enterprise network professionals depend on Network
Instruments’ Observer product line for unparalleled network visibility to efficiently solve network problems and manage deployments. By combining a powerful management console with
high-performance analysis appliances, Observer simplifies problem resolution and optimizes network and application performance. The company continues to lead the industry in ROI with its
advanced Distributed Network Analysis (NI-DNA™) architecture, which successfully integrates comprehensive analysis functionality across heterogeneous networks through a single monitoring
interface. Network Instruments is headquartered in Minneapolis with sales offices worldwide and distributors in over 50 countries. For more
information about the company, products, technology, NI-DNA, becoming a partner, and NI University please visit www.networkinstruments.com.

© 2006 Network Instruments, LLC. All rights reserved. Network Instruments, nTAP, and all associated logos are trademarks or registered trademarks of Network Instruments, LLC. All other trademarks, registered or unregistered, are sole property of their respective owners.

ELEXO - Téléphone : 01 41 22 10 00 - Fax : 01 41 22 10 01 - info@elexo.fr
SA AU CAPITAL DE 381 123 EUROS – TVA : FR 00 722 063 534 - R.C.S. NANTERRE B 722 063 534 - SIRET 72206353400043 - CODE APE 516 J

