NfCE®
·

lntent. lnsight. Impact:"

NfCE®•

lntent. lnsight. Impact'."

NICE Intelligence Solutions include:

,/

NICE Intelligence Solutions are deployed by leading LEAs and

NiceTrack Target 360°
NiceTrack Target 360° is an end-to-end solution for communication

intelligence organizations worldwide. As a NICE customer, your
intelligence investment is supported by:

interception, analysis and investigation. The system supports the entire

Technology leadership

intelligence production cycle both in real-time and offline. The system is

Intelligence know-how

designed to provide hermetic 360° target monitoring by addressing the
dynamic and complex nature of the communication world and specifically
the Internet arena. To provide a comprehensive intelligence picture,
the system includes 30 accurate positioning, advanced IP monitoring ,
Open Source Intelligence (OSINT), Lawful Hacking and speech analytics
capabilities. NiceTrack Target 360° supports all types of telephony and IP
data, including voice, email, SMS, video, chat and social networks in all
types of communication networks.

Large, field-proven install base
Global presence and local support
Customer focus approach

...,,

,..

,...

Our seasoned team of professionals provide:

2417 technical support

NiceTrack Horizon lnsight
NiceTrack Horizon lnsight is a platform for mass interception and analysis

Disciplined project management
Smooth and rapid deployment

of very high volumes and rates of communication data (e.g., telephony,

High-quality customized training

IP and open source). The platform is designed to automatically extract

lndustry-standard technical documentation

and produce valuable intelligence, detect and identify new targets and
suspects from billions of voice, text, metadata and location events per
day. NiceTrack Horizon lnsight consists of algorithmic engines and
predefined communication patterns to provide complex alerting for
preventive intelligence.

NiceTrack Collection and Processing Engines
NiceTrack software-based patented collection and processing engines

ABOUT NICE
NICE Systems (NASOAQ: NICE), is the worldwide leader of intent-based
solutions that capture and analyze interactions and transactions, realize
intent, and extract and leverage insights to deliver impact in real time.
Oriven by cross-channel and multi-sensor analytics, NICE solutions
enable organizations to improve business performance, increase

guarantee efficient, cost-effective and smooth interception deployments

operational efficiency, prevent financial crime, ensure compliance, and

at all communication networks and the processing of any type of data

enhance safety and security. NICE serves over 25,000 organizations

prior to the analysis stage.

in the enterprise and security sectors, representing a variety of sizes

Collection and processing engines include:

and industries in more than 150 countries, and including over 80 of the

•

Location Tracking Engine: 30 accurate positioning for mobile
phones

•

Satellite Interception: OCME and VSAT interception solutions

•

Speech Analytics: Speaker and language identification, keyword

Fortune 1OO companies. www.nice.com .

•

spotting and speaker hunting

NiceTrack Intelligence Consulting Services

Horizon
lnsight

NICE provides LEAs and intelligence organizations with a wide range of
workshops, intelligence courses and on-site consulting services. These
services help customers to mitigate criminal activities and security
threats more effectively by improving intelligence production. Courses

Processing Engines

and workshops cover both specific areas of interest and broader issues,
and are customized to accommodate any level of participants and any
desired timeframe. Ali services are delivered by SIGINT professionals with
vast experience in technological , operational and investigative aspects of
intelligence work methods and processes.

Collection Components

