DIGITAL BARRIERS I CORPORATE OVERVIEW

3

db

Digital Barriers

Advanced Surveillance
World-class products and specialist solution
engineering for homeland security and diefence

Mission-critical surveillance demands innovative and proven surveillance capabilities
that have been developed specifically t o meet the most demanding requirements.
Digital Barriers provides advanced surveillance technologies t o the international
homeland security and defence markets. Specialising in 'edge-intelligent' solutions that
can be deployed across remote, hostile or complex operating environments, we work
with governments, multinational corporations and system integrators in the defence,
law enforcement, critical infrastructure, transportation and natural resources sectors.
We design and develop innovative solutions to capture, analyse and then deliver
actionable and intelligent surveillance information from a range of sensors across
multiple network technologies. Our surveillance technologies have been proven in
some of the most demanding operational and environmental situations.

www.digital barriers.com

0 2012 Digital Barriers plc. All rights reserved.

DIGITAL B A R R I E R S

I

CORPORATE OVERVIEW

We combine an understanding of practical operational requirements with innovative applications of leading-edge
technologies. Digital Barriers has world-class expertise in the following areas: wireless video streaming for mobile
surveillance; fixed wireless surveillance systems for urban surveillance; ground sensor networks with intelligent
wireless networking for unattended monitoring; advanced image processing and sensor fusion for enhanced
situational awareness; and assured surveillance networks and systems for complex surveillance environments.
Digital Barriers offers a comprehensive portfolio of surveillance products and solutions. We provide organisations
with the readily-deployabletools, critical components and specialist engineering t o enhance their surveillance
capabilities in a range of operational scenarios. Detailed profiles are available for the areas featured below.

Covert Surveillance
Countering evolving threats and adversaries requires a response that draws on a first class intelligence
picture - captured in increasingly diverse locations and by more flexible operations. Digital Barriers
provides wireless video/audio streaming and other covert equipment for covert surveillance teams.
Key Capabilities:

TV1 range of wireless video/audio streaming units (including the small form
factor NI 5400, compact TV1 C300 and ruggedised N I R300 units) and N I
infrastructure for fixed/mobile distribution of real-time surveillance
Covert cameras and 'drop box' recording systems

Citywide Surveillance
Dynamic urban environments require surveillance capabilities that can monitor high-threat locations,
quickly respond to major incidents and provide effective oversight of public spaces. Digital Barriers
offers a range of readily deployable fixed and mobile wireless surveillance units, as well as integrated
command/control, video analytics and networking for sophisticated citywide surveillance schemes.
Key Capabilities:

Stryker range of readily deployable urban surveillance systems (including
the Stryker WMV wireless multi-view unit and Stryker WRX wireless rapidly
deployable unit and the Stryker RDK-U mobile urban surveillance kit)
COE range of surveillance networking (fibre/lP) and command/control
systems with 4D Video Analytics automated alertinglmonitoring suite

i

Border Monitoring

/

Border control is critical to countering security threats, crime and illegal immigration -but distance,
environment and terrain make conventional technologies unsuitable for remote border areas. Digital
Barriers has developed surveillance solutions (wired and wireless) that address the specific challenges
of using video and ground sensors to monitor expansive borders and operate in remote regions.

I

Key Capabilities:

Zimiti range of wireless unattended ground sensors (including Zimiti C-IDS
for covert intrusion detection) and NIwireless video streaming products
(including N I R300 ruggedised unit for deployment into remote areas)
TV1 wireless infrastructure for secure distribution of real-time surveillance

Situational Awareness
Critical operations require an accurate, real-time view of highly dynamic environments and events,
with an operational picture that seamlessly integrates and enhances multiple sensor inputs. Digital
Barriers develops specialist engineered solutions for enhanced vision and situational awareness that
feature world-class processing algorithms and techniques for image/data processing and analysis.
Key Capabilities.

United Kingdom
Enterprise House,
1-2Hatfields,
London S E 1 9PG, UK
t: +44 (0)207 940 4740

e.Golf-Park, Building A,

950 RournanilleAve, BP 80187,
06904 Sophia-Antipolis Cedex,
France
t: + 33 (0)492 38 84 30

Design and engineering of enhanced vision and situational awareness
systems including: image processing, enhancement and stabilisation; sensor
and data fusion; detection and tracking; and object extraction/classification

Americas

Middle East

Asia W i

1750 Tysons Boulevard,
Suite 1500,McLean,
VA 22102,US

Office 902,Thuraya
Tower 1, Dubai lnternet
City, Dubai, UAE

No.3, International Business
Park, #03-25Nordic European
Centre, Singapore 609927

t: +l 703 289 5110

t: +g71 56 144 6920

t: +65 6325 6018

