Unattended Ground Sensors
Zimiti C-IDS

I
Digital Barriers;

Covert intrusion detection system

The Zimiti C-IDS is a ground sensor based covert surveillance system for
detecting human/vehicle intrusion in a secure area or along a border line.
Its compact form factor, ease of deployment and self-healing low-power
wireless networking make C-IDS ideal for use in harsh and remote locations.
Keeping an ear to the ground in any conditions
The Zimiti C-IDS system is a next-generation unattended
ground sensor (UGS) system for covert monitoring of
perimeters, borders and distributed high-value assets e.g.
pipeline infrastructure. The system consists of buried
seismic sensors, connected wirelessly using RF. The nodes
create a robust radio network, communicating with a
gateway that uses SATCOM or GPRS t o provide remote
monitoring of the nodes from anywhere in the world.
Its low-power wireless networking and resilient form
factor ensures rapid deployment and a long-service life,
making it ideally suited for long-term deployment into
remote areas and harsh environments. Nodes are quick to
deploy, easy to camouflage, and have long battery life,
providing the low probability of detection, continuity of
service and negligible in-field service required of a covert
solution. The units are tuned to detect people, digging
and vehicle movements, with unit variants also available
for detecting animal and aircraft movement.

Key features
Discreet form factor (only top is visible when buried),
making it easy to camouflage to avoid detection
Small and lightweight system consisting of sensor
nodes and gateway - easily carried by a single person
Rapidly deployable based on simple insertion of each
node into a small hole in the ground (tool supplied)
Simple configuration - radio network configures itself
and identifies most robust comms path t o gateway
Very cost-effective system, opening up applications
for which military-style UGS systems are too costly
Highly reliable alerting based on low false alarm rates
that are minimised by advanced detection algorithms
Robust wireless networking, utilising frequency agility
and a self-healing network from nodes to gateway

Operational domains and installed base

Both the sensor and network technology contribute to the
operational performance of C-IDS. Advanced detection
algorithms in the the sensor nodes minimise false alarms.
Further false alarm filtering is performed at the gateway
by analysing responses from groups of sensors. The RF
wireless network is self-forming, self-healing and very
power efficient, providing reliable ongoing networking.

The C-IDS is specifically designed for organisations with a
requirement for a ruggedised IP67 UGS to withstand harsh
environmental conditions. Its robust design is ideal for:
Covert surveillance (seismic vibration sensors)
Remote location with no supporting infrastructure
Tactical surveillance for forward operations

With its lightweight form factor (less than 0.5kg per node),
minimal components (nodes and gateway units) and a
self-forming network configuration, it is easy to deploy a
multi-node C-IDS solution. A small hole is made in the
ground, into which each node is inserted. Across nodes,
the network immediately identifies the most robust
communications path to the gateway. The long battery life
(up to 6 months) and physical and electronic robustness
of the units means that ongoing maintenance is minimal.

Product codes
Zim-CIDS-N

Z~mitiunattendedground sensor node

Zim-CIDS-GW Zimiti network gateway

Pre-productionversion -form factor
is illustrative of producfion version

O 2011 Digital Barriers plc. All rights reserved.

L

Technical Specifications

GIDS-S
Function:

Detection, classification and remote alert communications of human and vehicle movement

Number of Sensors in Network:

Typically 10 t o 1,000 depending on configuration

Secured Area - 100 nodes:
(perimeter deployment)

Human detection approx. 500,000m2
Vehicle detection approx. 2,000,000m2

Secured Border - 100 nodes:
(linear deployment)

Human detection approx. 2,500m
Vehicle detection approx. 5,000m

Alarms:

Human and vehicle intrusion, loss of communication t o node, tamper alert

C-IMSenrors
Detection Range:

15m to 30m

Deployment Life:

Up to 6 months

Power Source:

Replaceable lithium batteries

Operating Temperature:

-20째C t o +70째C

Maximum Sensor Weight:

500g

B m o r Network CDmmunicatiom

C-IMGaeway
SATCOMS or GPRS

Wide Area Network:

Radio Frequency:

Europe: 863 - 870MHz
North America: 902 - 928MHz

Deployment life:

Up to 6 months

Power source:

Replaceable lithium
batteries

Standards Compliance:

ETSI: EN300 220 and EN 301 489
FCC: 47CFR part 15

Operating temperature:

-20째C to +70째C

Network Characteristic:

Self-configuring, self-healing

Maximum gateway weight:

2kg

Interference Mitigation:

Frequency agility

System llludation
Zimiti C-IDS can be used in a perimeter deployment or linear deployment for monitoring of ground
around facilities, along a border or along a distributed high-value infrastructure, such as a pipeline.

satellite

I

-

X--....------',

----m----

-

Control
Room
----------m-,

I
I

I
I
I

.
W O E Speclficahons subject
to change without notlce
-

--

deploy
self-heal~ngmesh

Detection
~etection
15-30rn

4
4

Remote
Remote
Pipeline
Pipeline

Dlg~talBarners ( Unlt 18, Avenue Buslness Park, Elsworth, Carnbr~dgesh~re
CB1 ZLA, United Klngdorn
t +44 (0) 1954 268 930 1 f +44 (0) 1954 267 729 1 www digltalbarr~erscorn
-

