Utimaco DRS™
Automated Data Retention for Telecommunications Service Providers

Features
Collects communications data (CDR,
IPDR) and subscriber data from any
telecommunications network
Retains large amounts of data in a
powerful and secure data warehouse
Provides very fast search and
analytics in billions of data records
Automates request processing and
delivers data to authorized agencies
by fax, e-mail, or secure IP interfaces

Benefits

Automated Data Retention for
Telecommunications Service Providers

Complete solution to satisfy the

Retention of subscriber data and communications related data has become a legal require-

Lowest operating costs due to

ment for telecom operators and service providers around the world. Laws and regulations like
the EU Directive 2006/24/EC oblige telecommunications service providers to retain CDRs,
IPDRs, as well as subscriber data for a period of six to twenty-four months.While much of the
data required is being recorded by providers already for billing and marketing purposes, these
new regulations put some cumbersome and potentially costly obligations on CSPs in regards
to data security, delivery of data, and completeness of information.
Utimaco has addressed these challenges with a brand-new approach that is affordable,

data retention obligations of
communications service providers
high automation of workflows
Cost-effective integration in
existing networks of any size with
various communication services
Suitable for large networks with
several billions of CDRs per day
Reliable system security and
data protection

quickly implemented, and secure. Utimaco Data Retention Suite (DRS) is a state-of-the-art,
purpose-built management system for secure data retention and fast data retrieval. The
system has been designed to easily integrate into existing network infrastructures that
generate thousands of data records or even up to several billion records per day.
Utimaco DRS incorporates a configurable workflow management system which reduces
operational expenses by automating the administrative tasks of request handling and delivery
of search results to authorized agencies. Comprehensive security mechanisms like granular
user management functionality, strong access control, encrypted storage and handover, and
full audit trails of all user and system events, are fundamental features to support compliance
with national regulations for data protection and for public safety.

About Utimaco
For more than 25 years Utimaco is a leading global provider of data security solutions. Since 1994 Utimaco has been
providing lawful interception systems for mobile and fixed network operators and Internet service providers.
Utimaco Data Retention Suite was introduced in response to the EU directive 2006/24/EC and at the request of telecom
customers for integrated LI and DR solutions. With more than 150 installations in 60 countries, Utimaco is a leading
global supplier in the LI market.
While Utimaco data security products are now distributed by Sophos, the business units „Lawful Interception and
Monitoring Solutions“ and „Hardware Security Module“ form Utimaco’s operating businesses.

DRS-Datenblatt_101006 1

06.10.2010 16:09:48 Uhr

Utimaco DRS™
Hardware Specifications

Operation
& Administration

Law Enforcement
Agency

Utimaco Data Retention Suite

Oracle X86 servers
https

Frontend

DRS Management Server

Various configurations from single
server appliances to multi-server
clusters

Workflow Management

ETSI Interface

Web Server

Email Interface

System Monitor

Fax Interface

Integrated disk storage (up to 12TB)

DRS Backend Server

External SAN from 6TB to 1000TB
(RAID)

Warrant, User, Note, Authority,
System Management

Handover
Interface
Data Analysis

Data Integration

DRS Collection Devices

Sybase IQ data warehouse

HI-B

System Monitor

Backend

Oracle Solaris 10
Operating System

Data
Warehouse

HI-A

CD 1

CD 2

CDR
Mediation
System

Router

...

CD x

Query
Processing
Data Archive

CE marked, FCC compliant, ROHS
Telecom
Network

Services
PSTN telephony
Mobile telephony & data (GSM,
UMTS, CDMA)
Mobile Messaging (SMS, MMS)

Highlights

Internet Access
(DSL, cable, Wimax, WLAN)

Seamless Integration

Switch

Location
Server

Subscriber
Database

E-Mail, Webmail

Utimaco DRS has been designed for seamless integration into existing multi-vendor and multiservice networks. The solution can be customized easily to interface with CDR/IPDR systems, log files,
sub-scriber databases, and other network nodes.

Other services on request

Multi-tenancy

VoIP, Push-to-Talk

Security
Granular rights management
Remote access via https
(password, certificate)
Full audit trail (encrypted)
Data integrity protection
Encrypted storage (optional)
Hardened operating system

Performance
Loads up to 100,000 records
per second (on one server)
Average search performance:
5 sec per 1000 query results

Norms and Standards
EU Directive 2006/EC/24
ETSI TS 102 656
ETSI TS 102 657

One Utimaco DRS system can be used to administer warrants and search requests for multiple network operators and service providers. The granular rights management system of Utimaco DRS can
be configured to securely segregate between networks, users, and authorities and thus supports
various business models like MVNO models, managed services, or cross-border service platforms.

High Performance & Capacity
Utimaco DRS has been optimized for simultaneous loading of massive data volumes and fast query
processing. The system can ingest several billion data records per day, supporting the transaction
rates generated by large telecommunications networks with millions of subscribers. Average queries
results are returned in seconds not minutes.

Strong Security
Comprehensive security features like role-based access control, encryption and integrity checks prevent
unauthorized access and manipulations of sensitive data during storage and handover. Full audit trails
are maintained for all system and user events to provide full accountability for evidential quality.

High-availability
Server redundancy, RAID-5 data mirroring and real-time system monitoring are integral concepts of
Utimaco DRS to satisfy highest availability demands and disaster resilience.

Cost-efficiency
Utimaco DRS runs on broadly available and cost-efficient X86 servers and uses standard SAS/
SATA disks arranged in RAID-5 arrays. This together with the excellent data compression rates
reduces hardware expenses to the absolute minimum.

Standards based
Utimaco DRS is fully compliant with latest ETSI standards in support of the European Data Retention
Directive 2006/24/EC.

Copyright Information
Copyright © 1994-2010 – Utimaco Safeware AG - a member of the Sophos group, October 2010
Utimaco DRS™
Utimaco DRS is a trademark of Utimaco Safeware AG. All other named trademarks are trademarks of the particular copyright holder.
Specifications are subject to change without notice.

www.utimaco.com/drs
Utimaco Safeware AG
Germanusstraße 4
52080 Aachen
Germany
Phone +49 (0) 241-16 96-0
li-contact@utimaco.com

DRS-Datenblatt_101006 2

06.10.2010 16:09:50 Uhr

