for your l a w Enforcement Requirements
Wolfhound-PRO'

features an advanced receiver
and multi-band DF (Direction Finding) antenna system for the most precise cell phone detector as well
as GPS trackers and U.S. DECT 6.0 cordless phone
detection. Simple trockboll/pushbutton operation
and ultra-bright OLED screen make it easy to use for
both trained and untrained security personnel.

[

241-7
CELL P H O N E SECURITY MONITORING
watch hound^^ is wall-mountableand monitors any

.

cellphone prohibited area for activity. All detected a
h
D
calls are time stamped and recorded for later analyL
sis. Watchhound can also be confinured to look like t
a common thermostat on onv walC
1
I

TQTW q q F m I
Govsmment Security Awarc

Wolfhound' is not only able to detect but also
locate cellphones using voice, text or data communications. This is accomplished with our custom
receiver design and a direction finding antenna
system. WolfhoundTMcomes in two different models,
one for U.S. cell bands and one for European, Asain,
Australain & New Zealand cellular bonds.

Wolfhound-LiteT* is similar to a pager; it's pocketsized and works hands-free notifying users of nearby
cellphone activity. A crisp, OLED display, removable/
rechargeable 9V battery and carrying case round out
the features.

Call us today for more information:

TOLL FREE 18887374287 / (outside U.S. 8 Canada) +l 732-5483737
www.bvsystems.com
sales@bvsystems.com

Provrdrng wreless soluf,ons for over 35years

II

Berkeley Varitronics Systems Bloodhound (a.k.a. Wolfhound) Cell Phone
Detector 'Sniffs Out' Contraband Cell Phones in Maryland Prison.
Five smuggled cell phones discovered during a two-hour sweep of Maryland3 Department of Public Safety & Correctional Services facility

-- --

METUCHEN, W, April 14, 2010
Berkeley Varitronics Systems, Inc. (BVS), a leading provider of advanced wireless solutions and products to the domestic and
international wireless telecommunications industry, recently showcased the Bloodhound Cell Detector at the GovSec Show in Washington, DC March 23nl.

I

A live Bloodhound demonstration at the show was made to Mr. Jay Miller, DOC IT Manager for Maryland's Department of Public Safety and Correctional Services. A
field trial was scheduled that same evening to fully test a Bloodhound in a Maryland correctional facility. A team of correctienal officers were assembled to execute
a cell phone confiscation operation during the evening hours of Tuesday, March 23,2010 accompanied by Mr. Miller.
Di the five confiscated cell phones, two were on an active voice calk, one was being used for text m-ging,
and two were hidden on mndby mode. One of the
hidden phones was in a hollowed out brick covered by a capstone in a low wall that separates bunks areas in a dormitory. The second was inside an electrical box that
had been covered up with a solid utility plate, which was held In place with security screws.

I

''It took only two hours to find five cell phones that were either in use at the time or hidden in the jail cells on standby mode ready to take calls," said Jay Miller.

"Based on these results we plan to place additional orders for the Bloodhound cell phone detector," added the Assistant Commissioner of the Maryland Dlvlsion of
Corrections, Mr. Gary Hornbaker.

As a wireless, handheld device, the Bloodhound Is a safe, legal (Bloodhound does not use jamming which is a violation of FCC rules), quick and cost-effective way
to monitor and pinpoint unauthorized cell phones within comctional facilities 24 hours a day. The complete Bloodhound unit costs $1,800, whlch is much less than
other solutions that may require an entire network infrastructure to be installed. The device can also be utilized by any government agency or organization that wants
to enforce a 'no wireless policy'. This can also include schools, hospitals, airliners, etc.

"It took only two hours
to find five cell phones
dhat were eMer in use
at the time or hidden
in the jail cells on
standby mode ready to
take'calls.'"
Jay Miller
OOC IT hlalagsr

of PuMlc

Maryland

Safety & carsetional Senlcw

is

shown

with included

l

DF
(Direction
Finding) antenno
ideal for detecting and pin
pointing contraband phones.

Subject: Thanks for s u ~ ~ o r t i the
n e eauioment for testine of Cell Phone Detector

To Manager of lnfoleader Co., Ltd., Thailand and Berkeley Varitronics
System, INC., USA
Due to Department of Corrections of Thailand (DOC) having strong
requirement to look for the qualified cell phone detector device to search for the
illegal cell phone used in the prisons, lnfoleader Co., Ltd. together with Berkeley
Varitronics System, INC., USA have proposed Bloodhound for such purpose. The
presentation has been performed on 16 July 2010 at DOC Headquarter, from 13:oo
to 15:oo. The corresponding demonstration of the device is also taken place to
describe the feature and capabilities of the system. Explicitly, the result of the
demonstration and the test are very good by finding the hidden cell phone in the
room effectively.
Moreover, the DOC officers had invited the team to do the actual field test
at the real prison. So,on the same day at 18:00, the team together with DOC officer
have entered into Bang Kwang Central Prison, one of the most critical prisons in
the country. The joint team had selected to inspect zone# 5 and start using the
device to detect whether there were any cell phone in that area. The result
surprised everyone. With only 30 minutes of the operation, the device could detect
many cell phones and identify the positions which led the team to find 10 mobile
phones. Everyone in the team were very happy with such excellent result and plan
to make the complete report to the upper executive level. This can prove that the
proposed device is very capable to work as the key device to detect the cell phone
in the prisons in Thailand.
In summary, Bang Kwang Central Prison would like to thank lnfoleader Co.,
Ltd. and Berkeley Varihonics System, INC. to provide us such great device and
fantastic support for cell phone detection test. This device can really help us to
improve all the related cell phone checking process. We hope that we can work
closely with your company in the near future.
Sincerely yours,

"With only 30 minutes of the operation,
the devlce can detect many cell phones
and identify the positions which led the
team to find 10 mobile phones. Everyone
in the team were very happy with such
excellent result and plan to make the
complete report to the upper executive
level. Thls can prove that the proposed
device is very capable to work as the key
device to detect the cell phone in the
prisons in Thailand."

Visanu Prachongkit
Bangkwang Prison Commander
Thailand

Mr. Visanu Prachongkit
Bangkwang Prison Commander

