Mobile Government
Information available
to citizens 24/7

Where can I renew my passport?
Which pharmacies are open after-hours?
Are there any traffic restrictions tomorrow?
Citizens often have a hard time finding the answers to even the simplest of questions and sometimes
find themselves having to go through procedures, offices, norms and/or documents just to get
them! The information they seek is now available and accessible from anywhere and at anytime,
thanks to the Internet, smartphones and advanced technology.
Expert System has developed a software called COGITO® Answers which combines the potentials
of Natural Language Processing with semantic analysis in order to improve the interaction between
local government and its citizens. Designed for mobile devices, the simple interfaces allow citizens
to send a text message (in everyday language) to their local government, their healthcare provider,
the transportation system, etc... For example, users can ask, "What's showing at the cinema this
evening?". The system will automatically process the request and send back an answer in real
time.
This service functions thanks to Cogito Answers' semantic software which automatically understands
the meanings of words and phrases and precisely analyzes the language we normally use to
communicate.

Cogito Answers: the convenient new Mobile Government solution
which gives citizens the information they need
- when they need it.

Case Study: COsmOs
COsmOs uses Expert System's Cogito Answers software to
provide an innovative text message information service for
the citizens of Trentino.
The service is offered by the Consorzio dei Comuni Trentini
and involves numerous institutions as well as over 40
townships in the Trentino area. The synergy gained from
these collaborative efforts helps to provide citizens with an
exclusive solution which is the only one of its kind among
local Italian governments.
Citizens can send text messages everyday, 24 hours a day,
to 333–8888188 and ask a question in everyday language.
No predefined, hard-to-remember codes are needed. The
system will identify the relevant context and automatically
send an answer back to the user's cellphone.
COsmOs is a constantly growing system and aims to do
much more than just provide updated information. Research
is currently underway to find new ways to apply this efficient
tool of Mobile Government to improve the quality of service
for tourists in Trentino.
COsmOs currently provides information about offices, traffic,
events, payments, healthcare services, pharmacies, weather,
public transportation, etc...

Benefits
COsmOs lets citizens access content
of interest in a way that is:
- Simple and user-friendly: with
natural language interfaces
- Quick: answers are received within
seconds
- Precise: the system extracts the
answers from a constantly updated
database
- Interactive: any cellphone or
smartphone can be used
- Automatic: no operators are
needed because the system alone
interprets the requests 24/7
- Economical: the service cost is the
same as for a normal text message

Every month, COsmOs
processes nearly 12,500 sms

Interact with government
through text messages:
Expert System's semantic software
at the Shanghai Expo 2010
Expert System is among the winners of “Italy of Innovators”, an event in which the top Italian technologies were
selected for the Shanghai Expo 2010. The objective of the event was to showcase Italy's best innovative and inventive
ideas related to the Expo 2010 theme, "Better City, Better Life".
Expert System’s project (which uses Cogito Answers), "Maximizing government-citizen interaction through natural
language interfaces" is the only project among 450 to base its innovative service on semantic technology.
"This is a great opportunity to showcase Italy's small and midsize businesses, whose ideas are often unknown,"
commented Minister Brunetta. "Italy is not just about Ferrari - should there be 10 brands like Ferrari -nor fashion,
food, Finmeccanica or large industrial groups. Italy is also about its little known geniuses and the “bella Italia” that
we bring to the world." (source: ANSA)
For more info: www.italianvalley.it

www.expertsystem.net
info@expertsystem.net

