Benefits
Cogito Answers is...

Natural Language Search
for Knowledge-Base & Self-Help Solutions

®

COGITO Answers is an intuitive web & wireless-based
system that allows your customers to ask questions
about your products or services in natural language
and quickly receive personalized answers with one
simple click.
The semantic technology of Cogito Answers has
streamlined the customer experience by providing a
convenient and accurate method of accessing
knowledge bases such as: user manuals, guides and
other support materials.

Convenient: Accessible 24/7
through the Internet, Email or
Mobile;
Accurate: Content is current,
consistent and from a trustworthy
provider;
Fast: Answers are delivered in
seconds so customers may
continue exploring your
product/service;
Simple to Use: No training
required. Simply ask a question
and receive an answer;
Personalized: Specific answers
tailored to the customer’s request
/ question.

Customer visits your help section
Asks a question in natural language
Receives the best answer within
seconds

Cogito Answers enables customers to freely express and help themselves in everyday language
— any time and place they need it — via the Web, email or mobile phone.

You have one chance to impress your customers with great service. With Cogito Answers, you can give your
customers the best available answers to their questions the first time around.
Web & Wireless
Available online or via a wireless device, the Cogito Answers semantic intelligence tool provides
a distinct new support experience for users. Customers can simply ask a question and
receive the specific answer directly from your corporate knowledge base.
E-mail
Cogito Answers manages large volumes of emails and instantly analyzes the requests contained in them. The
software then goes on to automatically retrieve the most appropriate answer or redirect the request to the
most knowledgeable operator within your customer care operations.
Natural Language Processing
Customers can ask their questions in everyday, natural language and in a few moments, receive
the relevant results online or through email, SMS or digital voice phone call.

Cogito Answers is comprised of two components:
1- Natural Language Interface (NLI) and
2- Back-end server which integrates unstructured content

Expert System
Expert System is the leading provider of semantic software, which discovers,
classifies and interprets text information. All Expert System products, which
are based on the patent pending technology Cogito®, leverage the company’s
expertise in the development of business solutions for the primary markets
(i.e. Automotive, Consumer Electronics, Oil & Gas, Media, Mobile, etc.) and
support the activities of Knowledge Management, Customer Care and Intelligence.
Worldwide customers include Eni Group, Pirelli, ANSA, Telecom Italia, Microsoft,
BNP Paribas, the Italian Ministry of Defense, and the Ministry of Interior Affairs.

www.expertsystem.net
answers@expertsystem.net

