NETI IT CONSULTING LTD.
ABOUT US

INFORMATION IS OUR SERVICE

Company Profile

With nearly twenty year experience, NETI is a pioneer in the development of systems based on custom
designed applications supporting analytic security solutions. - These systems provide our customers with
robust and efficient tools for the handling of massive dataflow monitoring in various areas.
Supported Business & IT Areas

1. Monitoring systemsfor law enforcement
Our systems are capable of supporting the national security services, ICT service providers and the
vendors of ICT systems. Starting fiom the various monitoring subsystems through the tactical interceptors
our solutions cover the whole spectrum of the information intercepting, decoding and processing systems.
2. Log processing, protecting data assets and integrity of IT environments
Our pertinent applications support the analysis of the trouble-fi-ee operation and IT security of enterprise
IT systems, supplemented with supervisory and management services. Our systems are capable of
handling and tuning of alerts issued by operating systems, hardware related solutions (such as IOS,
firmware etc.) and specifically developed applications, complemented with associated statistical functions.
3. Workjlow support

The processing of information intercepted by monitoring or the realization of business processes in
different areas all need a massive database background and workflow management, which we are ready to
implement in our custom-tailored applications.
Products and Solutions

I. Bongo
Wall-to-wall integrated monitoring system with the capability of observe countrywide communicating
networks (LEMF). From the interception of the communication, through its decoding, to the visualization,
there are several items in the rich portfolio of the system.
2. CompactBongo

The tactical version of the Bongo system which is capable to support operational tasks, the hidden
intelligence. Regarding its functionality, it is close to Bongo but ensures real-time data processing without
statical integration into telco network.

16 Munkacsy M. str. Budapest H-1063 -

.-A

-

3. NETIPHONE

Traditional smart-phone focused application provides secured mobile communication. Includes all the
conventional services which used by the major part of subscribers but enhances them such functions with
which core business applications can be published, and to the cap it all communication is always secure.
4. NETIMON

In la*l

interception focused architectures this product is in the role of LIG (Lawful Interception

Gateway). Such as, NETImon is capable of interconnecting the system of the monitoring authority with
the telecommunication system and passing on commands and monitoring related information.
5. SecureGateway

The product provides aid for enterprises using portable medias (pen-drive, CD, DVD, mobile HDD)
strongly. The portable medias could be deeply investigated from security aspects and immunise, even in
such environments where updating of perimeter defense tools is difficult to solve.
5. OneWayer

The OneWayer is a security gate - consists of two servers and one rectifier-like module -which allows of
granting one-way dataconnection between two networks where the level and regulation of security is
different. The typical use case is injection of data into a high security leveled network meanwhile
information must not leak from protected network.
Clientele

The clientele of NETI can be most easily found in two market segments:
The players in telecommunications monitoring (national security organizations, ICT service providers and
the international vendors of ICT equipment), on one hand
The providers of electronic government services and their suppliers (relevant administrative institutions,
large IT companies and system integrators) on the other hand.
Human Resources

NETI has an in-house professional staff over 30 employees including IT engineers, application
developers, and the management. In order to meet various challenges approximately 20 independent
experts contribute to our teamwork from time to time. The industry in which we are active has special
requirements regarding human resources besides constantly developed high professional qualifications
and the knowledge of foreign languages. Personal integrity and a clean and transparent carrier are
indispensable.

16 Munkacsy M. str. Budapest H-1063 - - .- rw.rteti.com - neti@neti.hu

