Innovative And Proven
Communication
Intelligence Solutions

Strategic
Telec0mmUnication
NetW Ok~
Monitoring

I

I
1

Government security agencies face huge challenges in their combat
against crime and terrorism. VASTech's telecommunicationnetwork
monitoring solutions provide an opportunity to meet these head-on.

Governments have an obligation to protect
their sovereignty and protect their citizens
against secunty threats and crime. In the
modern technological society, where terrorism
and organised crime are ever-growing
concerns, achieving the above has become
increasingly difficult. This is due to the fact
that criminals and terrorists are -thanks
to today's high-tech telecommunications
networks - able to communicate more freely
than ever. However, these communications
can also be a rich source of intelligence and
the implementation of the right solutions
to obtain this intelligence makes it possible to
turn the tables in favour of security and stability.
Understandingthe necessity of such
operations, VASTech has developed passive
monitoring solutions that are designed
to offer security agencies access to the
massive volumes of information generated
via telecommunications services, for the
purposes of analysis and investigation. These
solutions offer users the power to review the
content of communications over extended
periods of time, discovering new targets and
uncoveringtheir relationships
with collaborators.

I

I

I

Massive Passive Monitoring
The global nature of terrorism and crime
threats has increasedthe scope and demands
of passive surveillance:
Large volumes of traffic need to be
intercepted (1000's of ElS) to cover large
geographical areas;
Different types of interfaces are required
(El/rl; STM-1ISTM-4, Gigabit Ethemet);
Large storage capacity (Petabytes) and
vast processing are required to intercept ail
possible content and metadata;
Changes in protocols or telecommunications
environments continue to occur.
The VASTech Zebra solution is designed to
address these demands elegantly and flexibly.
The use of passive connectivity ensures isolation
from the networks being monitoredand independence from operator personnel, thereby allowing
independent operation for the security agency.
Zebra offers sophisticated integrated tools to
correlate signalling with bearer channels,
analyse protocols and extract content. Functions
such as tagging, target selection, intercept
collections, flexible search, rules-based postprocessing and integration with external analysis
applications allow the mass of information
to be managed and manipulated to unearth
the hidden intelligence. The architecture
is designed to intercept all content and
metadata of voice, SMS, MMS, email and fax
communications on the connected networks,
creating a rich repository of information.

Effective and Efficient
The Zebra solution can be deployed cost
efficiently both in small and very large
configurations. A high end system can
comprise of more than 100,000 simultaneous
voice channels, allowing it to capture up to
one billion intercepts per day and storing in
excess of 5,000 Terabytes of information.
The high density of connectivity, processing
and storage results in a small footprint for
the solution.
The system is designed for TDM and IP
telecommunicationstraffic, ideally suitable for
use in mobile (GSM and 36) networks, fixedline networks, satellite carriers, high density
fibre-optic cables and international gateway
exchanges.

ss5 g BSMAP

F M CLsccp

C
.r PSTN 4

eO

-? + zhE
a

GSM
2"
A-INTERFACE
W323
-

The current reality is that criminals and enemies of the public
have access to very potent communication systems. Their ability
to co-ordinate activities over vast distances is unprecedented,
demanding accurate and rapid response from security agencies.
The VASTech Zebra solution has been designed to provide the
means to meet these challenges head on.
Zebra is part of VASTech's comprehensive product portfolio that
includes the Badger broadband interception system andadvanced
communications analysis tools.

The Power
to Act

ONE
SOLUTION
b Strategic passive surveillance system for
Voice, Fax and SMS content in TDM and IP
traffic, on Satellite, PSTN and PLMN networks
and fibre-optic cables

b Providing massive capacity on-line storage for
communications

b Intercepting all traffic
b Creating the ability to reach back in time
and discover new targets and networks of
collaborators

.

Uncover Communications

Unified View, Unlimited Growth

All content is retained online in the Zebra system for
extended periods of time, allowing immediate playback
or viewing. Analysis of this intercepted data allows the
investigator to identify targets and discern relationships
which may have their origin years into the past.
The Zebra network view is particularly useful in this
regard, as it allows for the visual exploration of a network
of relationships and interactions, starting from any
chosen communication. More crucially, Zebra offers
investigators the opportunity to view or listen to the
content of these past conversations, further enhancing
their insight. This makes it possible for the analyst to
uncover the hierarchy of an organisation, using as a
starting point a single conversation and reviewing current
and historical communication.

Since Zebra can be deployed as a secure distributed
solution, comprising multiple Zebra Capture Units, it
enables the intercept points to be located close to the
point of traffic aggregation. A unified view is offered
across all these intercept points, allowing for a single
integrated interpretationof all telecommunications in the
system. The ability of the solution to interact with a mix
of interfaces and backhaul traffic from remote locations
enables it to be deployed exactly according to individual
customer needs. Depending on the legal mandate of the
security agency, the coverage can include a mix if all
internal communications, communications traversing the
country's borders and satellite communication outside
the borders.
Moreover, as customer requirements evolve, existing
Zebra Capture Units can be expanded or additional
Units deployed to accommodate any increase in
traffic volumes. The integrated CIC mapping function
enables rapid configurationof signalling with arbitrary
connections of carriers, while signalling information can
be shared amongst capture units in different locations. In
addition, roaming support for mobile devices allows the
end user to be identified, regardless of where he travels.

BenefitS

Full spectrum coverage: Accepts intercepts from a variety of networks - GSM and 3G mobile
networks, fixed line networks, satellite communications, international telecommunications
gateway, high density fibre-optic cables.
Power: Ability to scale to process and store massive volumes of data.
Strategic Intelligence: Power and capacity to record everything, content included; allows for proactive intelligencegathering and the reconstructionof communications scenarios after an incident,
exposing collaboration networks visually.
Flexibility: Able to adapt as the monitored environment technology and topology changes,
evolves to meet changing user requirements, connects to all types of physical interfaces.
Customisation of the system is part of the design philosophy.
Scalability: Expands seamlessly to allow for additional gateways, processing power, storage
and Capture Units.
One system: Unified view over entire deployment, regardless of Capture Unit location.
Efficiency: Ultra-dense hardware ensures a small footprint that requires minimum floor space,
electricity, air conditioning and support.
Ease of integration: A powerful API allows the integration with existing customer applications
and analysis systems.

Zebra Specifications

F

r1.10T0r;ow AND ACT1

M G t S AND GWAGI I Y

FUNCTIONS

E11l-l Gat

Each Zebra Capturn Unit can intempt over
100,000 toll qualii voice channels (m&data and content) simultaneously.

Arbitrary input oomrectign,
I

Zebra Datacentre unifies up to 200 Zebra
Capture Units into a single system.
I

2GlGSM - GERAN B
3GNMTS - UTRAN: RANAP
GSM+UMTS: DTAP, SM
VolP: SIP, SIP-I, SIP-T, H.323, H.244
SDP, T.38
ISDN: LAPD, Q.931

VASIech SA (Pty) Ltd 1 7 Quantum Road, Technopark. Sfellenbosch 7600. South Africa
Tel t27 (0) 21 880 9800 ( Fax +27 (0) 21 880 9870 I www.vastech.co.za I info@vastech.co.za

I

:

Mobile identities:
Temporaly identity translation:
TMSl to IMSI, MSRN to MSISDWMSI;
Permanent identitvtranslation:
Integrated DCME classification and
decompression.

\vAvL

m

Satellite and Terrestrial Monitoring Solutions for National, Regional and Transnational Intelligence

!
I

