AudioScope

C O B ! ! !

.

Audio Capturing and Recording Syst
Models: AMD-225. AMD-285, and AMD-345
l

-

Qata Sheet

--J

--

The most important thing we build is trust

Audi

Mfcrophone array seen from top

Zoom in on a particular object

Steering

The challenge of isolating and capturing desired sound from
within large noisy environments is a well- known problem.
The AudioScope Surveillance System is a high- performance
audio capturing and record~ngsystem customized for the
surveillance industry. The AudioScope allows an operator to
zoom in on a particular object and record required sound
in much the same way as a camera zooms in a picture. This
makes the AudioScope an ideal solution for separating out
conversations in noisy environments.

The exact direction for sound pickup is steered from the
video screen without any physical movement of the dish.
Sound from the selected point is amplified and isolated using
the AudioScope's advanced signal processing, which makes
the targeted sound source clearly audible even in a noisy
environment.

Array with hundreds of miaophones
The core component of an AudioScope system is a slim circular
microphone array with the option of 225,285 or 345 individual
microphones. The dish is typically suspended over the area of
interest. A small wide-angle camera is also integrated in the
center of the dish providing a live video signal to the system
Control Station's video screen.

zoo^ I; on sound sources post recording
Any,,,,a,
missed in real-time can be captured later in replay.
This unique function is ideal for crowded places where the
operator does not know from whom or where he would like to
separate the sound until later.

AudioScope
Audio Capturing and Recording System
Technical Information

Intuitive user interface
The system's very intuitive user interface is offering fast.
accurate operation of the Aud~oScope.The operator monltors
the live on-screen view from the camera, and slmply moves
the cursor t o capture selected audio. The system supports
mult~pleoutput channels and the operator can select up to
five listening zones simultaneously -both in real-time and
In replay. The operator can also choose to select filters to
elminate undesirable sound and nolse.

Ail conversations need to be heard.

AudioScope Dish
Lightweight Carbon Fibre Housing
Wide-angle Camera
Omni directional Microphones
Pick-up Pattern: Multi-Directional
Models
AMD-225-S, 225 m~crophoneelements. diameter 1.05m
AMD-285-S, 285 microphone elements, diameter 1.55m
AMD-345-S, 345 microphone elements, diameter 2.12m

7

zE
7
Q

2

3

For further information please contact:
Cobham Tactical Communications
and Surveillance
Skindbjergvej 44. DK-8500 Grenaa, Denmark
T +45 87 91 81 00
F: +45 87 91 81 81
tcs.grenaa.sales@cobham.com

Spectron~cDenmark AIS trading as Cobham Tact~calComrnun~cationsand Zurveillance

