U
Specialized Audio Editor

New interface. New capabilities.
The new SIS II includes powerful tools for speech signal analysis, enhanced speech visualization, display
and analysis capabilities, induding speech segmentation and text transcription. and many other features.
Forensicanalysis of audio recordings is faster and easier with the SIS II.
L

$8 STC

Y"l!

I

7 1

rlr ill A,&

Working with Spectrum Filters

Easy Text Transcription and Export

One of three filters (mverse, harmonic and spectrum-saving)
can be created and applied to the slgnal spectrum, modifying
its shape accordingly (e.g. to enhance speech, Improve clarity,
remow tonal notses, etc.). Filter processing a important in
nolse filtering and tdent~fication.

Selected fragments can be easlly assigned to particular
categories (e.g. d~fferentspeakers or sounds) and speech
fragments can be displayed as corresponding text. Thts output
can be exported to Word as a text document.

1
l

Work with Layers and Transparency

Easy Signal Navigation

Signals can be layered for easy comparison. Colon and
transparency can be changed to ease readabilrty

The functronal waveform navrgatlonbar lets you see the entlre
signal. The area being analyzed is displayed In the waveform
navrgation window. This can be changed easily by selectrng
another section for display.

Automatic Speaker Identification
Automatic calculatron of sneech sianal charactenstlcs:
assesses the suitabilrty of 'a phonoiram for identrficatlon
purposes.
Automatic marking of speech sections of a phonogram, PIUS
the capability of lndrcating different types of now.
The hrgh reliability of Speechpro's automatrc ~dentrficatron
algorithms has been conf~rmed
by N I T test results

Working with Projects
Create projects and add related flles (audio, video, text).
Open project flles from the SIS I1 interface.

Optimal Window Arrangement
Signal wrndows are arranged conveniently accordrng to task
vertical for rdentification, honzontalfar authentication and norse
filtenng, or customized according to user preference.

Quick Text Search
Clulck search of text tranxrrptrons finds words appearing in two
or more waveforms, whlch IS usefulfor comparison purposes.

' The NIST Speaker Recogn~tmEvaluat on (SRE) series s the foremost annm
.nlemat~oml
event ,n voice tdent~ficat~cn

New plaback capabilities

Custom Settings

Ptay in pseudo sw-mmade: i m p m the sound quality of
monorecordings
SWitd7kf5tantlybeWeenaudiofragmwns:doesn'tintenupt
pb&ack and makes it easy to comparespeakers
Start pbybackwith the s p d m no need to remember hot
keycombham
Pley fibbefore opening them: Lets you Listen to recordings
without downWng thdr waveforms to the ed'rtor.

Tadlrrr customlntion: tailor the pragrarn to fit specific

Speech Signal Analysis and
Visualization

Forensics ~eborts:
Features
1

tasks and m o v e-U

rnw functions.

Changeable cdor schemes for wirrdaws, curson and
sign& more opportunitiesfor fut-cthal and personql
tailoring.

SpearPgramsarerodnwrlrutMMUcrttywhenparamtrten
gemratesa forensics
are changed:makes it easy to $KMse o p t i d settings.
template) in Word Users can also
T h e l n r t r n t ~ ~ ~ m u l t i p l e s p e c t a l ~
easing visual comparison.
New scmnshot capabilities capture active windows and
Histogramrtrtistrcr camprrSson is a u&~i i d e n t i i o n tool selected areas. Screwhots of signal c o m p a can
~ be
for comparing primary tone and for authentication.
copied artd pasted inEo forensics reparts.
Wavefurm pint pmdethgfinds ttam changes in signal
The signal prOpertiesretain all the settings with w t r i visible
quamization levels;aucial in for audio autbt~dtyanalysis.
function lets these settings be
speech was obtained.The
insertedas captionsto illustrations in forensics repCH2s.

(O)

Speech

o
g
yl ;:!p
;

Russia
4 Krasutskogo street
St Peterzh~,196084
Td: +7 812 331 0665
Email: it&%pw&m.com

Gwneny
13 Hellwigstraw
!3arheken. 66121
TeL: 4 9 @) 681 859(1565
Email: sdes&peech-tekde

