r:13E:

Intent. Insight. Impact.

NlCE Safe City Solutions
NlCE Safe City solutions enable municipal authorities, emergency response units and law enforcement
agencies to reduce urban violence, fight crime and prevent terror threats. The NlCE Safe City platform
includes award-winning surveillance technology, advanced video analytics and a fully equipped
Command and Control Center. NlCE is a trusted solution provider and delivers reliable, field-proven,
scalable solutions to secure business centers, shopping malls, public buildings, and critical facilities
in major cities worldwide.

Enhanced Situation Awareness
NlCE Safe City solutions include an interactive 3D Virtual Urban Environment
delivering complete, accurate and up-to-the-minute information in a
geographical context.
The NlCE 3D virtual environment integrates Geographic Information System
(GIS) technology together with sensor devices, GPS and location tracking
applications, to pinpoint the exact location of any event. With a few simple
mouse clicks, you can display detailed schematics for all municipal facilities
including water supply, electricity, sewage, communication cables and gas
pipes. NlCE Safe City solutions make sure you get the right information, at
the right time for the right location.

- .leal-Time Event Triggers: Deliver an immediate response to
automatic triggers such as panic buttons, intrusion alarms, gunshot
detectors and fire sensors.

m Proactive Content Analytics: Perform real time video content
analytics to identify suspicious objects or behavior in public areas.
M

Intuitive Event Management: Log incoming events, initiate standard
operating procedures and perform immediate incident verification via
a simple, intuitive user interface.
InteractiveVirtual Environment: Pinpoint the exact incident, activate
video surveillance cameras to monitor ongoing events and display
schematics for municipal facilities.

Unaied Operational Platfom
Based on a single unified platform, the NlCE Safe City solutions promote
efficient event management, streamline municipal security operations and
ensure seamless integration with external systems and databases. The NlCE
unified operational platform features:

Complete Video Surveillance: Control any number or type of video
devices including fixed, Pan Tilt Zoom (PTZ), mega pixel, and long
range (night and day) cameras.

Cellular LocationTracking: Overcome urban environment challenges
such as reflection, altitude and precision to identify specific location of
mobile phone users.

H

Full Suite of Investigation Tools: Gain access to a wide range of
information including audio and video recordings as well as database
records. Easily export information for investigation and evidence
preparation purposes.

H

Information Sharing: Distribute mission-critical information in realtime to enhance inter-agency collaboration and assist emergency
response units.

Extendable Solution Capabilities
Concealed Video Surveillance Vehicles.
Mobile command and Control Units.
GPS Vehicle Tracking Device.

m Tactical Interceptionfor Mobile Calls.

Expert Professional Services
NlCE solutions are in use by major cities, international airports and intercity rail systems worldwide. As a NlCE customer you benefit from expert
knowledge provided by seasoned security professionals. NlCE Safe City
solutions are backed by:
7isciplined project management
jmooth and rapid deployment

Cost Ufective Deployment

m Expert on-site integration

NlCE ensures your operational needs are met to the full, before you perform
costly infrastructure and deployment activities. NlCE Safe City solutions
~ncludethe NlCE Simulation and Planning platform that enables you to:

m High quality customized workshops

m Simulate and view events based on design specifications.

Complete Event Lifecycle Management

m Standards based technical documentation

m Test effectiveness of sensor location and video cameras.
H

Evaluate the effectiveness of your planned system via a powerful
2D/3D simulation platform.

m Validate seamless integration of all system components.
m Design customer tailored automated standard operating procedures to
handle a wide range of threat scenarios.

m Utilize automatic surveillance features to minimize staffing and
headcount.

Flexible and Scalable Design
NlCE offersaflexible, scalable and fully tailored solution to help you keep pace
with evolving operational needs and technologies. The open architecture
design features:
Distributed remote access storage.
Flexible multi-site deployment.
Easy integration of new sensors and devices.

m Optimal performance to suit communication and bandwidth

infrastructure.

Reliable, Field-Proven Technology
NlCE is a trusted solution provider and a global industry leader of security
solutions for Safe City, Mass Transit and Airport Security. Based on award
winning, field proven technology, NlCE Safe City solutions are suitable for
deployment in indoor and outdoor facilities or in urban environments with
extreme weather conditions.
NlCE solutions comply with international standards and regulations. Our
experience and commitment to quality expectations ensure that your
technology investment is met to the full.

The NlCESafe City solutions effectively merge all of your video surveillanci
systems, Perimeter Intrusion Detections Systems (PIDS), communicatior
systems, and other inputs, into a single unifiedplatform.
The information is effectively distribufed to the appropriate persons,
field-units and response-teams. The solution connects the dots betwee
seemingly unrelated events, automates specific tasks and comple,
workflows, and intelligently adapts them as an event unfolds to reduce the
risk of human error. This ensures that the right action is taken at the right tim
and according to your organization's procedures, and empowers personnt
to make effective and informed decisians.
Extens~vereporting and debnefR79 capabiliteis provide accurate ant
complete accounts of every action taken related to an incident. Analystic
and management tools enable gathering business intelligence to identif

1: IX: Intent. Insight. Impact:

Global International HQ, Israel,

E M U , Europe L? Middle East,

T+97297753777,F+97297434282

T+440148977120O,F+4401489771665

Americas, North America,

APAC, Asia Pacific,

T +l
201 964 2600, F +l
201 964 2610

T+85225983838,F+85228021800

ACTIMIZE, Actimize logo, Alpha. Customer Feedback, eGlue Interact. FAST, FAST alpha Silver, Fortent, Fortent Logo. IEX, Insight from Interactions, Intent.
Insight. Impact., Interaction Capture Unit. Know More. Risk Less, Last Message Replay, Mass Detection. Center, Mirra. My Universe, NICE. NlCE Analyzer,
NlCE Inform, NlCE Logo. NlCE Perform, NlCE Situator, NlCE Smartcenter, NlCE Storage Center, NlCE Systems, NiceCall. NiceCall Focus, NiceLog,
NiceTrack. NiceTrack IP Probe, NiceTrack Location Tracking. NiceTrack Mass Detection Center, NiceTrack Monitoring Center, NiceTrack Pattern Analyzer,
NiceTrack Traffic Analysis, NiceVision, NiceVision Alto, NiceVision Analytics, NiceVision Controlcenter, NiceVision Digital. NiceVision Net, NiceVision NVSAT,
NiceVision Pro, Open Situation Management, Playback Organizer, Scenario Replay, Searchspace, Syfact. Syfact Investigator, Totalview are trademarks
andkr registered trademarks of NlCE Systems Ltd. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
DATE 1012011 PIN BR-18281 CONTENTS OF THIS DOCUMENT ARE COPYRIGHT O 201 1.

