MOBILE MPH-900@ALPR SYSTEM
The MPH-900@is the most accurate mobile ALPR system available. Digital cameras mounted
to the exterior of the patrol car read up to 1,800 plates per minute from a stationary location or
at highway speeds, cross referencing them against a hotlist housed on the in-car computer,
alarming if there is a match. Data collected can be transferred to a storage server for future
analysis to aid investigations.

FIXED FPH-900@ALPR SYSTEM
A N D FCU-900@UTILITY BOX
The FPH-900@is a compact, digital system integrating all ALPR components inside a heavy-duty
FCU-900@Utility Box. The system reads up to 1,800 license plates per minute day or night, in any
weather capturing a color image of the car, GPS coordinates, and date and time stamps. When
suspect vehicles are identified, alarms are broadcast wirelessly to a command center, nearby
patrol vehicles andtor officers' PDAs. The FCU-900@Utility Box houses the ruggedized PC which
hosts communications, along with surge and power management devices, as well as a high
tolerance heater and fan for self-regulating temperature.

THE ALL-IN-ONE FIXED ALPR SYSTEM
ELSAGS FPH-900@ALPRtechnology is now available as an All-In-One (AIO) system that
combines the power of our fixed digital cameras with a hyper ruggedized mini computer.
This compact, efficient system features low power consumption and can be set up anywhere,
even deployed as a best of class covert solution. It features three Ethernet ports for additional
FPH-900@cameras in order to support multi lane coverage and optional communication slots
which support both cellular or Wi-Fi connectivity, allowing for seamless integration with
ELSAG Operation CenterTMsoftware.

RADAR TRAILER
Get the benefits of speed monitoring and ALPR in one mobile solution. The DRT-1000 transforms
a standard radar trailer into a powerful covert tool that identifies license plates connected to
auto theft, child predators, warrants, scofflaws, uninsured vehicles, revoked driving privileges,
parolees, etc. while serving as a deterrent to speeding. With the optional Emergency Power
Source, 4000 watts of stored solar power are available for use during emergencies such as
hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, and power blackouts.

,

B

\

With 70% of criminal activity in the U.S. involving a -..
vehTile, and an
-

-

.%X 5

5-223

- , C 'C.*
--.l
U
-

estimated 40 million license privileges rev0ked, suspended or denied,
the MPH-900@is critical to addressing
.-

Real-time Intervention
AMBER Alerts
Auto theft recovery
Highway and traffic safety
Homeland Security
Perimeter security
Plate manipulation

Intelligence Gathering
Coordination with other
MPH-900a systems
"Late hit" analysis
Link analysis

Revenue Collection
Garage and lot access
Parking enforcement
Scofflaw violations
Tax collection

Suspect surveillance
Traffic pattern analysis

Probable cause generation
Rental contract violations
School bus safety

MPH-900@A N D FPH-900@COVERT ALPR SOLUTIONS
ELSAG's ALPR systems easily adapt to covert applications by concealing system components in apparatus or compartments that
fit in naturally with their surroundings. We continually work with partner agencies to develop creative covert solutions that address
their specific needs, many of which are becoming best practices across the country for missions requiring undercover surveillance
or inconspicuous "private eyes" along roadways and in other areas. All fixed and mobile covert products are crafted individually in
our manufacturing facility in Greensboro, NC. Each one undergoes a battery of tests and must pass strict quality standards before
being delivered and installed.

THE MPH-900@IN ACTION

I

Digital Automatic License Plate Recognition cameras are
attached magnetically to the body of the patrol car.
Officers on roadways use cameras to scan plates of
passing cars.
Cameras can read plates from fast-moving vehicles.
Locations and times of captured plates are stored.
An infrared camera captures images of the plate.

A computer reads the plate characters and compares
them with crime databases.

Database

YOI-NO10

Officers are alerted of a match.

The MPH-900@Performance
Captures up to 1,800 reads per minute, day or night
Processes parked and moving vehicles across 4 lanes of traffic
Captures plates at up to 150 mph (241 kph) closing speeds and passing speeds
Recognizes plates from all 50 states, Canada, and Mexico
Finds suspect vehicles within milliseconds of passing them
Alerts officers immediately if a vehicle is suspect, indicating the nature of the offense
Captures criminal intelligence data including date and time stamps, GPS coordinates and
photo of the license plate
Enhances effectiveness of Amber Alerts
Secures sensitive areas with Geofencing

ELSAG OPERATIONS CENTERTM
EXTERIYAL HONST

Constant

1

EOC
Your agency's ALPR units collect vast amounts of data that help resolve issues in real time, as well as provide critical intelligence to
aid investigations. The ELSAG Operations CenterTMis the brain that collects, analyzes, and manages all of those intelligence assets.
The EOCTM runs automatically, without user invention, communicating with all MPH-900@vehicles,cameras, and tactical operations
desks in your domain, ensuring that each ALPR system is current with up-to-date information. The EOCTMsaves time, resources and
keeps your information safely stored.

ELSAG TACTICAL OPERATIONS CENTERTM
Patrol unit confirms suspect vehicle

7"

Alarm automatically broadcasts
wirelessly to Command Center and
to TOC-outfitted field units

-X-.irn
VEHICLE

a

'

,

Dispatch confirms with TOC units
that alarm is valid and whether or
not he$ is needed

'"

er.
ELSAG Tactical Operations CenterTMsoftware shortens response times and increases officer safety by broadcasting MPH-900@
alarms to Dispatch and fellow officers automatically and simultaneously. This saves time during the critical period from when an
MPH-900@officer receives an alarm to when backup units respond. TOC-outfitted vehicles do not have to have the MPH-900@
installed in order to receive alarm information. Their TOC software works behind the scenes without officer involvement, coming to
the forefront of the in-car computer once an alarm is received. As Dispatch is verifying the validity of the alarm, TOC-outfitted
vehicles are already on their way to help.

.

-

-..

6
g;*

.

$X>;-:

INSTALLATION A N D SUPPORT
.

.

There are two options for installing the MPH-900B ALPR system on your vehicles. An ELSAG Certified Technician cam
your agency
and install hardware and software or, if your agency has a vehicle technician, you can install the hardware yoursslf theo&$nect remotely
to ELSAGS Technical Support Team to complete the software configuration via phone and internet. For Fixed Plate Hut@~~h&allations
an ELSAG Technician will conduct a site survey resulting in an installation plan presented to your agency. ELSAG Teeh
coordinate the fixed installations. Our goal is to provide solutions that meet the demand of our clients' missions. Errgi
is available for custom designs and installations. For pricing and more information contact us at 1 (877) 77.ELSAB (7
infoOelsag.com or www.elsag.com.
Technical support is available 24/7 by calling 1 (866) 9.MPH900 (967.4900).

UMITED ONE-YEAR WARRANTY
ELSAG offers a limited one-year warranty on its ALPR hardware.
For details, please call 1 (877) 77.ELSAG (773.5724) or ernail info@elsag.com.

ELSAG NorthAm*,

U.
A Finmeccanica Company

I

9.
e-

b*
F,;
::
$2

&A--

i

,

'1

