Innovation. Performance. Security

intelligent
Inmarsat Monitoring System

Satellite Monitoring solutions that go further

L-3 TRL Technology Inmarsat Monitoring System

The Inmarsat challenge
In today’s challenging security environment,
governments need to monitor conversations and
other communications transmitted across satellite
networks. While most satellite communications are
perfectly legitimate, the extensive geographical areas
they cover makes them a favourite tool for subversive
and criminal groups – providing access to the
international communications network.

L-3 TRL is recognised as a world-leading supplier
of satellite monitoring products and systems.
Our solutions allow government agencies to
passively monitor communications without
network interference, so threats can be tackled
early and effectively.
L-3 TRL is part of the leading US defence supplier
group L3 Communications. We specialise in marketleading surveillance, force protection and information
security solutions, to protect people worldwide from
the threat of terrorism.

Originally intended for maritime
communications, the Inmarsat system
of geostationary satellites has evolved
to provide worldwide communications for
marine and land-based, fixed and mobile
users. While the majority of users are
legitimate, Inmarsat’s global nature and
the convenience of its small mobile terminals
means the network is frequently used for
terrorist and other illegal purposes.

Inmarsat allows mobile terminal users to
connect to the terrestrial network, using any
Inmarsat earth station operator, via any Land
Earth Station (LES) in a satellite’s footprint.
(The LES is the main interface between the
terminals Mobile Earth Stations or MES, and
the terrestrial network). The call can be routed
via a LES outside the country of origin, and
even if the user is within their country borders,
local authorities cannot intercept the call.
This is a common tactic used by those who
don’t want their call to be intercepted at
the local switch – often because they are
conducting illegal operations. The L-3 TRL
Inmarsat Monitoring System counters this
threat with passive, non-intrusive interception.

monitor
INSARMAT Coverage Key

	

	

	

1-4 satellite F1

1-4 satellite F2

	

1-4 satellite F3

Mini-M
(Handset)

L-3 TRL Technology Inmarsat Monitoring System

Our response
the L-3 TRL Inmarsat
Monitoring System
The L-3 TRL Inmarsat Monitoring System (IMS) monitors Inmarsat
worldwide voice, fax and data traffic. It recovers both sides of telephone
conversations, with the targets completely unaware they are being
intercepted. The information can be monitored live and/or recorded
for off-line processing.
There are two distinct aspects to intercepting and monitoring calls
over the Inmarsat network. The first is where the intercept authorities
don’t know the unique identification that the mobile terminal uses
to identify itself to the Inmarsat network. The second is where the
identity of the terminal is known. You can configure the L-3 TRL IMS
so the target varies from ‘any user of a given Inmarsat service type’
to a single terminal (MES) ID.

monitor

Monitoring process
The L-3 TRL IMS mimics the LES and the
MES, monitoring and processing signals in
the same way as the equipment located at
both ends of the satellite communications
link. It can receive all signals routed between
the mobile and fixed terminals, via any LES in
the footprint of the satellite being monitored.
The monitoring site does not need to be
portable, and can be located anywhere
between the mobile and fixed terminals, as
long as it’s well within the satellite footprint.

Screen Shot

What does a typical
strategic Inmarsat
Monitoring System provide?
The L-3 TRL IMS comprises the antennas,
RF equipment, baseband demodulator
equipment and IMS Operating System
running on PC terminals.
Demodulator cards in the baseband
equipment racks are allocated permanently
to the satellite’s LES and MES calling channels.
System operators can assign any unallocated
demodulator cards to receive calls from
specific targets that have been entered
into the system.
A typical system with 24 channel cards
is capable of monitoring up to nine duplex
calls. More demodulator cards may be added
for additional monitoring – there’s no limit
to the number of demodulators in a system,
the only criteria being budget, space and
staff availability.

Extended L-Band monitoring
Inmarsat uses the C-band to communicate
with the LES and the L-band to communicate
with the satellite phone. The L-3 TRL IMS
monitors both the C- and L-Bands,
intercepting both sides of the call.
The Inmarsat system subdivides its L-band
downlinks into spotbeams. Our IMS can
monitor the spotbeam where it is located,
and the adjacent beams. L-3 TRL has also
developed an L-band outstation, to extend
monitoring to spotbeams outside this area.
The L-band side of the call can then be
paired with the C-band side captured
by the strategic system, to provide
the complete call.

L-3 TRL Technology Inmarsat Monitoring System

How it works
IMS monitors signalling channels during call initiation,
then assigns demodulator cards to intercept the
communications.
The system can be configured to listen to:
• calls made by any satellite phone
• calls to and from a known target satellite phone
• calls made by satellite phones to particular phone
numbers – either land lines or other mobiles
• particular call types i.e. voice, fax,
data or high speed data.
Inmarsat is increasingly used for data traffic, using a
wide range of formats. The L-3 TRL IMS is supplied with
the Magpie data analysis application, which decodes
most common protocols.

The L-3 TRL Marlin tactical
monitoring system
Marlin is ideal for situations where there is
no strategic IMS available or the operational
requirement is to capture terminal (MES)
information from known suspects. It can
be located physically close to the MES, and
users can be associated with their terminal
equipment.
With very compact antennas and receiving
equipment, Marlin offers the portability
needed for direct interception of the L-band
uplink signal from the MES. It can intercept
both the forward and return paths at L-band,
whether in line of sight or obscured by
buildings, as long as there is sufficient
uplink signal strength.

Marlin

Marlin’s full monitoring capability captures
call details and content, and stores the
information in databases for later analysis
or export. The system is effective against
these Inmarsat services:

• B-Service
• M-Service
• Mini M-Service
• GAN
• Fleet
The L-3 TRL Marlin system can provide support
for strategic IMS operations by capturing
terminal Ids, or operate as a standalone
system in any location. It’s available in a
variety of configurations and can be installed
in vehicles, aircraft or vessels.

Antenna

The next step
This brochure gives you
an outline view of the L-3
TRL Inmarsat Monitoring
System. For more details
and advice on how we can
supply and configure an
IMS system to your exact
needs, please contact us.

Innovation. Performance. Security

For more information
on L-3 TRL Satellite Monitoring solutions,
please contact us at:
Sigma Close, Shannon Way,
Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire
GL20 8ND, UK
Telephone 	 +44 (0)	1684 	278700
Fax	
+44 (0)	1684 	850406
Email	
info.trl@L-3Com.com

www.L-3Com.com/TRL

