Wireless Surveillance
Digital

Small form real-time wireless surveillance streaming

, je,

The Wl S400 real-time wireless video streaming encoder provides high-quality
video/audio in a low-power, secure, discreet and easy t o deploy unit.
With an ultra small form factor and two built-in GPRS/3G/HSDPA modules, the
S400 represents the next generation in tactical video intelligence.
Not all wireless vldeo solutions are created equal
TV1 wireless encoders are a world-class surveillance
solution for secure remote viewing of video over very low
bandwidth networks. In comparison to other wireless
video technologies, such as MPEG compression, TV1
provides a higher quality, lower latency and more resilient
approach t o real-time video and audio transmission.
MPEG and H.264 solutions rely on standard compression
techniques that can result in reduced frame rates, frame
skipping and difference coding. In contrast, by combining
a proprietary codec with an adaptive and more efficient
approach t o managing the underlying communications
channel, TV1 is able t o maintain a fixed frame rate and
deliver lower latency video over constrained bandwidths.

Key features
Ultra lightweight, compact enclosure with no moving
parts for reliable, resilient and silent operation
Secure live video and audio (two way) transmission
over very low bandwidth (supports 9Kbps to 1Mbps)
Rapidly deployable (in minutes) for operational
situations where installation time is critical
Constructed to accommodate the high level of
vibration associated with vehicle deployment
Features two integrated GPRS/3G/HSDPA modules
(with SIM carriers) for reliable networking
Changes t o codec settings or software upgrades can
be delivered remotely over the air
10/100 RJ45 Ethernet connector for ADSL and
network lines and satellite connectivity

Practical operational benefits
TV1 ensures a more efficient representation of detail at
lower bandwidths, particularly where motion levels are
high, as well as exceptionally low latency in the remote
control of cameras. Error resilience is also particularly
high, since the TVl codec is more tolerant of packet loss.
With secure AES 256 encryption, an ultra compact form
factor, low power consumption (5.5 watts nominal to 1.5
watts in standby mode and 0.1 in sleep mode) and the
flexibility to operate over GPRS, 3G and satellite networks,
as well as tactical IP radios and the internet, TV1 can be
rapidly deployed into a range of environments and
situations. The S400 includes two built-in GPRS/3G/HSDPA
modules for reliable networking and is network agnostic.

Operational dornalns and Installed base
TV1 codecs are deployed by organisations in the law
enforcement, military and transportation domains, as well
as by those responsible for securing public spaces. I t s ultra
compact form factor and simple installation make it ideal
for a range of static and dynamic operating scenarios:
Covert surveillance operations (video and/or audio)
Body-worn surveillance
Rapid deployment tactical surveillance

Multiple operators are able to view live streaming video
and the unit also supports retrieval of high resolution
images with simultaneous streaming of video, providing
access to frames of particular interest.

Product codes
Wl-S400

Ultra small form factor
wireless video encoder

Digital Barriers Datasheet I Wireless Surveillance

I

O 2012 Digital Barriers plc. All rights reserved.

I
I

Tc *

'

11 Specifications

Physi~ealSize:

Ll2Omm X W72mm X D33mm (including connectors)

Operattng Temperature:

-32" to +60°, non-condensing

Input Voltage:

9V-36V DC

Power Consumption:

7W max (8.5W with lX modem fully operational, IOW max with 2 X modems
fully operational), 6W nominal, <1.5W standby, <0.1W sleep

Audio:

Stereo audio inlstereo audio out

Camera Input:

2 X MMCX composite input

Video Input F m a t :

PALINTSC

ALrm Inputs:

3 X triggers at SV (24V max)

LEDx

Status LEDs provide information on start-up and configuration

Software
Viewers Supported:

Software available for Windows PC, Windows Mobile 6, iPhone and Android

Video Frame Sizes Supported:

128 X 96 up to 704 X 576 (4CIF), frame rates up to 25fps (PAL)

High Resolution Image Retrieval:

Enhanced definition (up t o 704 X 576) over user-definable areas via high quality JPEG

Connectors
USB:

Configuration of unit is via mini USB (connector also allows connection t o serial based devices)

R145:

Ethernet connector for ADSL and network lines

SIM:

2 X SIM carriers (network agnostic)

Power:

Provided to support vehicle or battery operation

Video Input

2 X MMCX connectors (PALINTSC video sources)

Audio/Power:

2 way audio (one way supported with current release software),
power out provides 2 X independent 12V supplies for external cameras

RIP Antennae:

2 X antennae for the internal GPRS/3G/HSDPA modules

Serial Ports/Alarms.

Provides ~ ~ 2 3 2 / ~ ~ 4 8 5 / ~ ~ 4 2 serial
2 / ~ ~ports
2 . 3for
2 ~control of cameras or other devices
3 X trigger inputs provide wake-up from sleep or alarm reporting

E l .

communi~~s
Internet Connectivity:

101100 RJ45 Ethernet connector for ADSL and network lines

GPRSI3GlHSDPA Connectivity:

2 X built-in GPRS/3G/HSDPA modules

Satellite Connectivity:

101100 RJ45 Ethernet for connection to lnmarsat GANIBGAN Fleet Routers

PTZ Connectivky.:

Supports Pelco P&D, Canon VC-C415, Sony Visca, etc. (other protocols on request)

Bandwidths Sypported:

9Kbps to 1Mbps

Minimum Server Specification:

2GHz Processor, Windows Server 2003 or Linux preferred, 1Gb RAM, Oracle Java JRE 1.6.0 or later

Built-in AES 256 encryption in addition to support for IP Sec VPN connections

RatingsandRegulaoryAPmb
EU Low Voltage Directive:

2006/95/EEC for product safety

EMC Conformity:

Directive 891336lEEC

FCC Compliance:

Class B Digital Device Part 15

E&OE. Specifications subject
to change without notice.

Digital Barriers I 4th Floor, 39 St Vincent Place, Glasgow, United Kingdom
1 f: +44 (0)844 556 8653 1 www.digitalbarriers.com

t: +44 (0)844 556 9500

