Case history

“The wide range of benefits which come from using COGITO's
platform for Knowledge Management and Intelligence include:
the efficiency of semantic research, a more complete organization
of the bulk of information, guaranteed security and compliance
of user knowledge-sharing and collaboration, but most of all,
tangible support for the business processes which develop in
line with our strategic mission.”
The quality and value of non-structured
information management
Eni case study – White Paper IDC

Eni's vision is to use innovation to support technology, generate
value and maintain its competitiveness. Eni operates in all of the
following aspects of innovation: technological monitoring, case
method studies, applied research, technology development and
the application of technological innovation to business.
The principle of "knowledge as an asset" is one of the key elements
in Eni's knowledge management strategy. For many years, the
company has dedicated particular attention to the methods and
techniques of content analysis, as well as to the evolution of
technological support platforms.

The objectives
To satisfy the needs of “non-conventional” searches and go
beyond the limits of keyword searches by applying a research
model based on semantic technology
To increase the value of intellectual capital by improving the
interaction between knowledge workers
To provide a solution to make information access flexible and
adaptable to meet Eni's specific needs (for example, the need
to identify the “solutions” to “problems” within a document)
To monitor external sources of information, in particular, the
activities of the competition and documents containing
technological or copyright information

Why Eni chose Expert System
Knowledge is the basis for all of Eni's development and competitive
activities. Therefore, the company needed solutions which could
guarantee fast, effective and efficient management of information.
The challenge was to revolutionize the very concept of knowledge:
it is not just a collection of information, but a group of connections.
Eni's strategic data is mostly of the non-structured type, such as:
news articles, web pages (from competitors' websites, for example)
and specific documents (patents, work-related memos), etc...These
kinds of text are rarely structured, meaning they are not usually
found organized in a database. This situation makes analysts and
knowledge workers' tasks quite laborious. The systems which are
traditionally used to handle non-structured information (such as
keyword search engines, instruments for information retrieval, etc.)
do not consider the meanings of phrases expressed in a text. They
have been proven to be inefficient for analyzing large quantities
of text because they are unable to understand what is discussed
within a document, and are thus incapable of distinguishing useful
data from irrelevant data.
Semantic technology focuses on the meanings of terms and is
characterized by its ability to focus on the content (topics, concepts,
noteworthy entities), regardless of how it may be expressed. Hence,
this technology can guarantee greater effectiveness and efficiency
in search activities (faceted searches and SAO), as well as in
intelligence processes (marketing and competitive intelligence).

Eni is a market leader in the energy sector.
It's main objective is to grow in the activities
of research, production, transportation,
transformation and commercialization of oil
and natural gas.

Market Area
Energy
The challenge
To provide a solution capable of
searching and analyzing documents
To access information in a precise
and complete manner
To organize information so that it is
uniform and readily available
To provide a complete solution for
the selection, the organization, the
correlation and the evaluation of the
information at the basis of intelligence
processes

The results
An instrument which is close to the
user's “mind”, able to highlight the
existing connections and relations
within information
Targeted access to documents;
searching not just by keywords, but
also by headwords and concepts and
by person, place, company
Automatic extraction of categories
and entities, navigation via facets
and SAO searches
Constant monitoring of external
information and a complete solution
for intelligence activities

Case history
The solutions
COGITO® Focus, Expert System's semantic software for
the strategic search and analysis of information
COGITO® Intelligence Platform, Expert System's suite
for the efficient and automatic management of large quantities
of data (text and audio)

How they work
Expert System provided Eni with Cogito Focus, an engine for
the strategic search and analysis of information. Thanks to
the advantages of semantic technology (the comprehension
of phrase structures and meanings of words, e.g.: is a jaguar
an animal or an automobile?), Cogito Focus is now the main
instrument used to manage Eni's entire, internal mass of
information.
Focus gives the user immediate access to the data which is
already structured within a database, as well as to the
unstructured documents (articles, e-mails, Web pages, etc.).
It is the ideal solution for searching through patent documents,
for example, because it follows an approach which is similar
to the user's mental process, which typically tries to find
“solutions” to “problems” within the document. This type of
logic is similar to the characteristics of patent documents,
which treat innovation using “problem toward solution”
criteria.

Market Area
Energy
Benefits
A reduction in the costs and time related
to information access; a reduction in the
sense of frustration often linked to the
inability to find information
An increase in value and sharing of
intellectual capital
Automatic monitoring of markets and
competition; support in all phases of
intelligence processes

Before
The traditional search engine was
incapable of handling the information
overload
Difficulties in using the documents already
on hand, there was no way to understand
(in a timely manner) what kind of
knowledge was already available
Traditional marketing and competitive
intelligence activities

After

Cogito Intelligence Platform is well-integrated with information
activities and offers complete support to aid the decisionmaking process. It is useful in all intelligence activities,
allowing Eni's knowledge workers to set up their own
personalized criteria, so that they can explore external
reference sources (websites) and carry out specific inquiries
on the gathered documentation, thus combining the power
of semantic technology with users' experience and autonomy.

www.expertsystem.net
info@expertsystem.net

A semantic search engine which integrates
strategic analyses of information
Semantic technology is able to handle
the information overload because it is
based on the correct comprehension of
words
Searches can now be done not only by
keyword, but also by headword, concept,
facet, SAO
The automatic categorization of all new
knowledge
OSINT system (Open Source Intelligence)
A complete solution for Corporate
Intelligence (integrated OSINT system)

