Loke I11 TX
Miniature Audio Stereo Transmitter

Spectronic Products Data Sheet
.

+a9

&>&i
I

The most important thing we build is trust

.-a...

Features
The Loke I11 low power transmitter introduces a new and
smaller form factor with the same excellent performance
as the existing Loke I1 transmitter.
The transmitter can be powered from any power source
between 3.6 t o 18 VDC, including car batteries.
The high output power provides extended range
and penetration and the low power consumption is
imperative in operations that require extended battery
life.

B

Digital stereo transmission
-High audio quality
Encryption of audio s~gnal
- Secure transmission
Small size
- Easy concealment
High output power
- Extended operational range

Loke I11 TX

le m

m ~ffrpcrrt%ntthing W

cobham Surveillance (Spectrori~cProuur~s)in Grenaa, Denmark
is a world leading provider of high-quality covert audio and
video surveillance solut~ons.Our products are exclusively used
by law enforcement, the intelligence community and military
special operations forces world wide in their efforts to combat
terrorism and crime. Besides the headquarters in Grenaa,
Cobham Surveillance (Spectronic Products) has branches in
Switzerland, Canada, Dubai, Argentina and Brazil.
It is our mission to deliver reliable products and solutions to
those people who risk their lives in their efforts to make our
everyday life more secure.

I

For further information please contact:
Cobham Surveillance
Spectronic Products
Skindbjergvej 44, DK-8500 Grenaa, Denmark

Cobham Surveillance (Spectronic Products) in Grenaa is trKe'ln
seven companies in the strategic business unit Cobham
Surveillance.The companies are specialists within audio- and
video surveillance, tracking & locating,VIP Iforce protection,
data /video links and surveillance systems.
We are part of the British Cobham Group that manufactures
high-tech solutions for land, sea, air and space platforms. The
Group has an annual turnover of more than DKK 11 bill~ons,
employs some 12.500 people on five continents, with
customers and partners in over 100 countries. The partnership
with Cobham means that we as a company can benefit from
world class specialists and resources,whenever needed.

