ION" Secure
Virtual Desktop
Computers that access the lnternet for research and investigations are at risk of compromise
by online viruses, malware, and other types of malicious code, especially when operating in
the dark corners of the web. Organizations must safeguard users and systems from these
growing online dangers while maintaining the ability to securely surf the web, download
critical intelligence, and conduct successful operations.

r ~ i o t e cyour
t
Network. Protect Your Users.
ION Secure Virtual Desktop is a separate online

\

workspace that insulates and protects the user's

ION Secure Virtual Desktop

equipment and networks by providing:

is a safe, virtual work

A CleanVirtual Machin-A
new, sandboxed, virtual
work environment in the Ntrepid network cloud is
created each time the user logs in to the system.

environment that protects
the user's computer
and network from

Obfuscation-Unique non-attribution features allow the

malware, viruses, shared

user to blend in with target website traffic during online

cookies/cache, and other

operations, removing government affiliation.

malicious code.

Geosit-To

accommodate mission needs, Ntrepid's

unique global exit point capability can be incorporated to

L

1

ensure all user activities are appropriate to, and originate from, a desired location.
Safe Downloads-Downloaded intelligence is sent through an independent Exfil
channel where it is checked for malicious code before it reaches the user's actual workstation.
Flagged items are quarantined to alert the user of malware.
Session Wipe--After logout, the virtual environment is deleted, without any history of online
activities remaining.
Secure Virtual Desktop

e
Cairo Desktop

-

Cairn Geosite

WWW

Q

Target Website

Tokyo Geosite

In the sample scenario, the user logs in and chooses the Cairo Secure Virtual Desktop. All online activities occur
in the virtual environment, keeping browsing history, cookies, and malware from transferring to the user's actual
workstation. All lnternet traffic routes through the Cairo Geosite, allowing the user to blend in with the normal
target website traffic.

User's Secure Virtual Desktop
User accesses a virtual interface leaving the actual workstation
completely untouched.

User's Physical Desktop

Exfil Welcome Screen

Downloaded items are initially stored in
the virtual machine For transfer to the
user's actual workstation, items are sent
through an independent Exfil channel,
where they are checked for mal~c~ous
code. Flagged items are quarantined to
alert the user of malware.

b IP address rotation and global exit points for non-attributable lnternet traffic
b Number of concurrent users is scalable depending on operational needs
b Software and network configuration of virtual environment can be customized

,

b Completely supported by dedicated, full-time staff
b Hosted at an Ntrepid facility or customer location

Learn how ION can secure your lnternet operations, contact us at

Ntrepid Corporation
12801 Worldgate Drive, Suite 800
Herndon, VA 20170

ion@ntrepidcorp.com
866-217-4072
www.ntrepidcorp.com

02011 Ntrepid Corporat~on.All rlghts reserved Ntrepid. ION, and ION SecureVirtual Desktop are trademarks of Ntrep~d
Corporatlon. Other product names, brand names, and company names may be trademarks or des~gnatlonsof their
respective owners. 10-11

