Today’s publishers must be able to convert their most valuable resource—content—into useful, easy to find
information and use it to develop other revenue generating formats. Semantic technology, through its ability
to understand the meaning of words, and the relationships between concepts included in sentences, paragraphs
and entire documents, offers a more effective way to search large amounts of information—structured or
unstructured—and manage and organize it automatically.
Expert System’s COGITO® semantic platform applies semantic technology to content, enriching documents,
content management systems and web pages with semantic information and metadata, and enabling
knowledge management capabilities, greater searchability and less manual intervention, all benefits for
publishers. Cogito makes it possible for publishers to create innovative online products by introducing new
capabilities in semantic advertising, social media integration and mobile delivery.

Cogito automatically links similar content and
suggests useful links for navigation.

This graphic is derived from semantic analysis
of the Wikipedia article on John Lennon.

Increased revenue.
Cogito enables the automatic identification and ranking of related
content, which can be used to suggest content to readers and
guide navigation, increasing page views and time on your site.
Unparalleled search performance.
Automatic semantic analysis provides users with a totally new
search experience. Content can be filtered to drill down within
a set of search results and retrieve the most semantically relevant
information.
Cogito automatically categorizes content, extracting concepts
and entities (people, organizations, locations, addresses, etc.),
which is used to create links and improve search and usability
of information, and enables new ways to use and generate revenue
from content.
Higher productivity and reduced production costs.
Automatic tagging, categorization and identification of content
leaves editors free to focus on other tasks and ensures greater
consistency and accuracy.
Innovation through mobile delivery features.
Cogito gives publishers the foundation for delivery to mobile
devices, enabling even more semantic features for content and
data integration.

Automatic tagging:
Automatic generation of a metadata
map for simpler retrieval in search and
information discovery.
Customization:
Adaptable to the customer's own
taxonomy and able to extract entities
and events according to business rules.
Access:
Easily integrated with third-party
applications as Web services. APIs
(Java, C++, .Net, etc.) are available
for customers with specific needs.
Ready:
Compliant with news industry standards
and available 'out of the box' with IPTC
categorization capabilities. It can also
be customized to work with other
taxonomies.

For more than 10 years, Expert System has supplied some of the world’s major media companies with
semantic publishing solutions.
AGI is a leading news agency with 16 bureaus around Italy and a consolidated presence
around the world.
AGI required greater efficiency in the compilation and categorization of its content and
wanted to improve the overall user experience on its website, while reducing operating
costs and guaranteeing a high level of precision based on IPTC standards.
Through the implementation of Cogito, AGI transformed news categorization and extraction into an automatic
process, allowing content to be more easily retrieved during search. By eliminating the manual aspects of
tagging it also introduced efficiencies in the organization of content. Semantic tagging automatically identifies
the most relevant content and specifies information used for analysis, extraction and key data. As a result,
AGI’s users benefit from more accurate and easier web navigation and from automatically linked information.
“Utilizing the Expert System semantic platform, we have reached a new and important frontier of technology.”
Daniela Viglione, president and CEO, AGI

Il Sole 24 ORE is a leading business daily that reaches over 8 million people weekly with
a full range of digital information collected and classified since 1984.
Il Sole 24 ORE was looking for strategies to stay competitive to meet the growing needs
of its readers, as well as to make their internal processes more efficient. Using Cogito, Il
Sole 24 ORE was able to achieve:
Improved user experience through a more logical and easier web navigation as a result of automatic
tagging and categorization, which also simplified the internal production process and reduced operational
costs.
Natural language search functions allow users to filter content with an unlimited range of entities to
retrieve content based on its semantic relevancy.
Increased advertising revenues from a higher number of page views, resulting from links between content.
“Automatic content categorization is an innovative practice which showcases the abundance of editors'
informative multimedia wealth.” Raffaele Turiel, Multimedia Content Manager, Il Sole 24 ORE

ANSA, a leading press agency, distributes over 4,000 news releases daily, and is in the
top five leading press agencies in the world.
ANSA needed a system to ensure the efficient organization of the large quantity of daily
news and content they manage: all text needed to be processed and organized in a
uniform, precise and timely manner, and according to IPTC standards.
Thanks to Cogito, ANSA was able to speed up content organization and analysis and improved access to
information by indexing and categorizing the news precisely and in real-time. Today:
Over 4000 news releases are categorized daily according to IPTC standards.
Text is uniformly organized thanks to the objectiveness of automatic processing.
The production cycle is at maximum efficiency and the quality of the news has been enhanced by
continuously updated knowledge bases.
“Expert System's semantic platform continuously updates our news archive and categorizes information
in the most accurate and efficient way possible.” Francesco Cardillo, Production Systems Manager, ANSA

Expert System is the leading provider of semantic software that discovers, classifies and interprets text information. All Expert
System products, which are based on the patent pending technology COGITO®, leverage the company's expertise in the
development of business solutions for the primary markets (i.e. Automotive, Consumer Electronics, Oil & Gas, Media, Mobile,
etc.) and support the activities of Knowledge Management, Customer Care and Intelligence. Worldwide customers include Eni
Group, Pirelli, ANSA, Telecom Italia, Microsoft, BNP Paribas, the Italian Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Interior Affairs.
For more information, please visit: www.expertsystem.net.

