ARPEGE ISIS-4G/IRIS-4G/IRMA-4G
Satellite Monitoring System
Retrieval of information from ACeSIISAT satellite communications system (GMR-2)

A Rohde&Schwarz Company

ARPEGE ISIS-4Gl

The modular system concept allows information to be
captured with and without call contents (traffic channels)
monitoring.

Satellite Monitoring
System
The ARPEGE ISIS-4G/IRIS-4G/IRMA-4G satellite
monitoring system enables the passive monitoring and analysis
Of communications sessions Of the
ACeS and ISAT satellite communications systems via
the air interface.
The GMR-2 satellite monitoring system includes three
main system components and the ARPEGE monitoring
center:
I ARPEGE ISIS4G monitors the telephone activities within
the GMR-2 satellite global beam. ARPEGE ISIS4G is part
of the central station
I ARPEGE IRIS-4G monitors active GMR-2 mobile phone
contents within the GMR-2 satellite global beam (C-bandonly). Duplex phone contents are available within a range
of approx. 1000 kilometers from the monitoring site.
ARPEGE IRISQG is part of the central station
I ARPEGE IRMA4G monitors active GMR-2 mobile phone
contents outside the ARPEGE IRIS-4G system's two-way
coverage area. ARPEGE IRMA-4G is part of the remote
sensor station
I The ARPEGE monitoring center is usually located near
the central station. Operators there analyze the intercepted GMR-2 activities and communications contents

L

N.R L-

,U--

iWr@ptk?m

(INMARSAT)

@

-

Without call contents monitoring, the system supplies
statistical information about the IMSls of active GMR-2
mobile phones in GMR-2 spot beams. With call contents
monitoring, the system provides identifying characteristics
of the calling and the called subscribers, as well as intercepted contents, e.g. voice, fax or data. The information
thus gained can be processed, analyzed and forwarded to
the customer by means of the ARPEGE monitoring center.
The ARPEGE ISIS-4GIIRIS-4GIIRMA-4Gsatellite monitoring systems are
of the SatMon system
from
-

.

ARPEGE (see figure below)

Key facts
I Satellite

monitoring system for GMR-2 footprint areas
(ACeS over Garuda-l and ISAT over 1-4 INMARSAT
satellites)
I Two-way contents monitoring in areas outside range of
central station by means of remote sensors
I Display of telephone activities in spot beams on electronic map
I Contents analysis and network analysis by means of
ARPEGE monitoring center software
I Modular, scalable system configuration
I Sustained system concept: universal hardware platform
for implementing various SatMon systems, and
comprehensive system health monitoring

U " ~ P ~ - % * ,

ARPEGE THE%*
interceptionsysten
(Thura~a)

$

ARPEGE ISIS-4
(ACeSASAT mobile phones)

ARPEGE ISIS-4Gl
IRIS-4GlI RMA-4G
Satellite Monitoring
System

-

ARPEGE ISlSQG determining GMR-2 activities
and identifying areas of interest
D page 6

ARPEGE IRISQGIARPEGE IRMA4G
GMR-2 contents

- monitoring

lnterception of duplex traffic with a central station
interception of transmissions in remote regions
without deploying a remote sensor
I lnterception of duplex traffic in remote regions by
deploying remote sensors
D page 8

I

I One-way

Seamless intelligence by reconstructing intercepted
GMR-2 data
D page 13
Monitoring fax and data communications
D page 14
Convenient, subscriber-oriented analysis with the
ARPEGE monitoring center
D page 15
Safe investment due to sustained system concept
D page 17

ARPEGE ISIS-4GIIRIS-4GIIRMA-4GSatellite Monitoring System 3

Introduction
GMR based mobile radio systems
GMR is an ETSl standard and stands for "GEO mobile
radio interface". Many parts of the GMR standard are
derived from the GSM standard.
Three satellite systems run GMR-based radiocommunications systems: Thuraya, ACeS (Asia Cellular Satellite System) and ISAT. Thuraya is based on the GMR-1 standard,
which is not discussed in this document. For more information about the Thuraya system, refer to the ARPEGE
EDITHTTHERESEIMARTHE product brochure. ACeS and
ISAT are based on the GMR-2 standard.
ACeS is a company headquartered in Indonesia and operates one satellite (Garuda-l). The coverage area includes
Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Vietnam, China, India and
parts of Pakistan. In 2006, ACeS entered into a collaboration
agreement with INMARSAT, a satellite telecommunications
company based in Great Britain. INMARSAT runs the ISAT
mobile radio system and operates three 4th generation satellites (1-4 EMEA, 1-4 APAC, 1-4 Americas), which provide
GMR-2 service. Currently, 1-4 EMEA and 1-4 APAC provide
ISAT service in Africa, the Middle East, Asia and Europe.
The GMR-2 system enables voice, fax and data communications. Voice traffic accounts for the largest part of all
GMR-2 communications.

GMR-2 coverane areas

GMR-2 mobile phones are only slightly larger than conventional GSM mobile phones. GMR-2 mobile phones operate
in dual mode: If a GSM network is available, it is used to
set up a call; otherwise, a call is established via a GMR-2
satellite. However, subscribers can force a connection via
satellite even if a GSM network is available.
The geosynchronous satellites provide coverage for mobile
communications via a large number of spot beams. Communications within a spot beam take place in the L band.
Communications between the satellite and the gateway
stations take place in the C band in the global beam
and can thus be monitored from any location within the
GMR-2 satellite's footprint area.

Aspects of radiomonitoring
Similar as in GSM networks, the traffic channels and
most signaling channels are encrypted in the GMR-2
system. For contents analysis, captured traffic needs to be
decoded first.
ARPEGE ISIS-4G monitors communications in the C band
from any location within the GMR-2 satellite's footprint
area.
ARPEGE IRIS-4G and ARPEGE IRMA-4G capture
traffic channels (voice, fax, data) and identifying call
characteristics.

m
..
,

l

\ C/L band

Monitoring range
Similar to the terrestrial GSM, the GMR-2 system uses the
same radlo frequencies in different spot beams (frequency
reuse). As an inherent feature of the GMR-2 system, twoway interception of traffic channels is possible only in a
limited number of spot beams around the site of the monitoring system. Two-way Interception means the reception
and processing of the incoming (forward link) and outgoing (return link) radio signals (each from the perspective of the GMR-2 subscriber). The two-way intercept~on
range depends on the areas covered by the spot beams
and on the distance between spot beams using the same
frequency and timeslots. Outside the two-way interception
range, a central station (ARPEGE IRIS4G) intercepts and
processes the return links (outgoing voice, fax and data)
for a speclflc number of spot beam areas. Remote L band
sensors (ARPEGE IRMA4G) intercept the forward link on
site, thus expanding the two-way Interception range of the
monitoring system.
As a basic rule, duplex communications can be intercepted in the spot beam in which the monitoring system is
located. Plus, duplex communications can be intercepted
In some spot beams adjacent to the center spot beam
depending on the allocation of frequencies and tlmeslots.

ARpEGElRMA4G

The flgure on the lower left shows as an example the
coverage provided by a Korean-based ARPEGE IRIS4G

l

I

system.
Neighboring spot beam clusters can use the same frequencies without interfering with one another. Spot beams
that use the same frequency can be successfully intercepted by one monitoring station due to the use of different timeslots. Typically, the spot beams in question differ
in signal power. The stronger signal will be intercepted; the
weaker signal will be lost.

7

Two-way interception range of a Korean-based
ARPEGE IRIS4G svstem

'

A preliminary site survey is recommended in order to
measure the actual coverage provided by the relevant
spot beams (spot beam visibility). This, in turn, will help to
determine the monitoring coverage provided by ARPEGE

ARPEGE ISIS-4GIIRIS-4GIIRMA-4GSatellite Monitoring System 5

ARPEGE ISIS-4G -

Principle of operation
Each activity of a mobile phone in the GMR-2 system
starts with some bursts that are transmitted over the
standalone dedicated control channel (SDCCH).This feature has been adopted from the GSM standard, though
the GMR-2 SDCCH burst's structure is different from that
of the corresponding GSM burst.

determining GMR-2
activities and
identifying areas of
interest

An SDCCH channel is established for each traffic channel in a spot beam for one of the following reasons, for
example:
I The subscriber initiates a call (mobile-originated call)
I The subscriber accepts a call (mobile-terminated call)
I For technical reasons (location update, etc.), without any
activity on the part of the subscriber
SDCCH bursts are transmitted from the mobile phone to
the satellite in the L band. Signal interception takes place
in the C band, i.e. in the downlink from the satellite to the
gateway station.
It must be taken into account, however, that there is no
fixed mapping of the traffic channel of a spot beam in
the L band uplink to frequencies in the C band downlink.
Instead, frequency mapping may be changed without
notice. For the monitoring system, this means that all
SDCCH channels of the GMR-2 satellite system have to be
intercepted simultaneously, even if the area of interest may
be limited.

Operating principle of the ARPEGE ISIS-4G
satellite monitoring system

,

The required monitoring bandwidth may vary depending on the type of satellite being monitored (ACeS or
INMARSAT). ARPEGE ISIS4G provides full-band activity
detection for ACeS monitoring. For GMR-2 activities over
INMARSAT satellites, which operate in a wlder frequency
range, ARPEGE ISIS4G needs to be expanded to provide
full-band activity detection (ARPEGE ISIS-4G + ARPEGE
ISIS-4G-X).
ARPEGE ISIS4G receives the GMR-2 s~gnalfrom a tracking parabolic antenna for the C band that converts the signal t o the L band. The figure opposite shows the operating
principle of the ARPEGE ISIS-4G satellite monitoring systern in a simplified manner.

L band

I

Gateway station

ARPEGEISIS4G

System structure
The ARPEGE ISIS4G satellite monitoring system contains
the following components:
I L band downconversion to the IF
I Wideband digitlz~ngand signal processing unit including
SDCCH burst detection
I SDCCH burst analyzers
I Sensor server
I Analysis and statistics workstation

Functional description
The global beam of the GMR-2 satellite is received in the
C band with a parabolic antenna. The GMR-2 frequency
band is downconverted by means of multiple downconverters. The required number of downconverters and corresponding processing units depends on the type of satellite being monitored (ACeS or INMARSAT).

The signals are digitized and searched in realtime for
SDCCH bursts. Detected bursts are marked and transferred
to one of the SDCCH burst analyzers.

The required antenna size depends on the location of the
ARPEGE ISIS4G monitoring system. Antenna diameters in
the order of seven to nine meters are appropriate.

A result data record is generated for each access of a
mobile phone t o the GMR-2 system. The data record
essentially contains the following information:
I Timestamp
I Spot beam ID
I Reason for activity (e.g. mobile-originated call,
response to paging, location update)
I Power class of mobile phone
I lMSl of satellite terminal (SIM card)

After conversion to the L band, the signals are transmitted to the building that houses the central station of the
monitoring system. Long distances of more than 100 m
between the antenna and this building can be bridged by
using fiber-optic cables.
The described system configuration is dimensioned to
monitor signals from one satellite. To monitor several
GMR-2 satellites simultaneously, multiple sets of equipment must be used.

The SDCCH analyzer demodulates and decodes the
burst information. The results obtained are stored as data
records in a database on the server.

To visualize and analyze the stored data records, we
recommend that you use the ARPEGE monitoring center
(see page 15).

Analys~sand stat~sticsworkstation

ARPEGE ISIS-4G/IRIS-4G/IRMA-4G Satellite Monitoring System 7

ARPEGE IRIS-4G/
ARPEGE IRMA-4G monitoring GMR-2
contents
Interception of
duplex traffic with a
central station

Principle of operation
ARPEGE IRIS4G is an expansion of ARPEGE ISIS-4G.
Some components of ARPEGE IRIS4G require data from
ARPEGE ISIS4G. The ARPEGE IRIS-4G modules operate on the following principle: They monitor the downlink
transmissions from the satellite in the C band and in the L
band. In the L band, the system receives the forward link
(from the gateway station to the mobile phone); in the C
band, it receives the return link (from the mobile phone t o
the gateway station).
In the L band, the mapping of frequencies to the spot
beam footprints is stable. In the C band, by contrast, the
frequency mapping may change. Based on the results obtained with ARPEGE ISIS-4G, the current frequency mapping is automatically determined. The resulting pairs of frequencies are integrated into the processing chain through
digital subband selection.
The term "frequency mapping" designates the relationship between the L band uplink frequency and the C band
downlink frequency for each channel. The frequency
mapping can be changed by the network operator. The
wideband concept of ARPEGE ISIS4G ensures that
any changes in frequency mapping will be immediately
detected ' J .

-~

Operating principle of the AKPttit lKlS-4ti
catellite monitoring

System structure
The figure on the next page (bottom) is a block diagram of
an ARPEGE ISIS-4GlARPEGE IRIS4G satellite monitoring
system. It contains the following components:
I ARPEGE ISIS-4G monitoring system including a tracking
antenna for the C band (e.g. ARPEGE IM-AC)
I Fixed L band antenna (e.g. ARPEGE IM-AL)
I Subband selection unit for C band and L band signals
(included in ARPEGE IRIS-4G)
I Scalable number of subband processing units
(ARPEGE IRIS-SBU)
I GMR-2 source decoding (included in ARPEGE IRIS4G)
I ARPEGE monitoring center including session server and
analysis workstations

'1

Monitoring system

Gateway station

ARPEGE ISIS-4G provides full-band activity detection for ACeS monitoring. For
GMR-2 activities over INMARSATsatellites, which operate in a wider frequency
range, ARPEGE ISIS-4G needs to be expanded to provide full-band activity detection (ARPEGE ISIS-4G + ARPEGE ISIS-4G-X).

ISubband selection

I
C band downlink

L band downlink

-

l

l

RF sampling and digital
downconversion(DDC)
m

m-m

I

,:z:

:X:

::
: m,:= p

Control unit

*.
,.jc-j
~:::;z~:+z T.?%2?--k-'

?

,

::

:E-:,:

,:.:.'P.=kq;7*f "IF over lP"
.
L
.
.

,.

.-.?c,,
.:. . .g;-.:
f

Functional description
A GMR-2 subband consists of one carrier with a bandwidth of 200 kHz for the forward link (L band downlink)
and four carriers of 50 kHz for the return link (C band
downlink). The subbands assigned to a spot beam are digitally downconverted (DDC) and dispatched in pairs for the
return link and the forward link to a subband unit (SBU)
via a local area network (LAN). Each SBU can process up
to four subbands per spot beam (for detailed information
about subband units, refer to the specifications at the end
of this product brochure).
After AID conversion and demodulation, the relevant protocol layers are decoded and analyzed. Results are stored
on the server. Depending on the selected operating mode,
the system intercepts and stores all calls or only those
related to specific targets (subscribers). ~ar~etlsubscriber
management is performed by means of the target database of the ARPEGE monitoring center.

SBU l

I

bband X (L)
.

ARPEGE IRIS-SBU
^

, , .

-

Sensor
EDMW

ostprocessing
GMR-2 source
I

IRI:
CC:

interception-relatedinformation
(time, IMEI, IMSI. TMSI, phone numbers, spot beam. GPS data,
call contents (voice, fax. raw data)

...)

~ ~ n sserver
or
database

-

iRPEGE ISIS-4G SDCCH monitoring

selection

iubbmd processing
(ARPEOE IRIS-SBU)

ARPEGE ISIS-4GIIRIS-4GIIRMA-4G Satellite Monitoring System 9

One-way interception
of transmissions
in remote regions
without deploying a
remote sensor

Principle of operation

The ARPEGE IRIS-CON C-band-only option intercepts
one-way channel contents in remote areas without the
use of a remote sensor. It extracts the contents from the
C band signal, allowing the return link contents of any spot
beam to be analyzed. It is thus possible to collect missionrelevant information immediately, i.e. without - or before
- installing a semi-mobile or fixed L band sensor in the
target area.
The system operator assigns C-band-only processing
resources (SBUs) to spot beams of interest. Subband units
in C-band-only mode make it possible to intercept contents and to locate GMR-2 subscribers with spot beam
accuracy. Missions to be performed as part of new operations can, therefore, be promptly accomplished.
The figure below illustrates mission planning for ARPEGE
IRIS-4G (including ARPEGE IRIS-CON). The red spot beam
footprints are located near the central station, and the associated subbands are processed by subband units in
two-way mode. The blue spot beam footprints are located
in remote regions, and the associated subbands are processed by further subband units at the central station in
C-band-only mode.

(re$: dualex. blue: simdex. C-band-onlv interceation)

m

I

Interception of
duplex traffic in
remote regions by
deploying remote
sensors
Principle of operation
The remote satellite monitoring system intercepts downlink transmissions from the satellite in the C band at
the central station (ARPEGE IRIS4G with ARPEGE
IRIS-SBU(s)).In the L band, downlink transmissions are
received at one or more remote locations (ARPEGE
IRMA-4G with ARPEGE IRMA-SBU(s))that are not covered
by the central station.
The operating principle of remote monitoring differs from
that of central monitoring in only one aspect: The SBU
subsystems for traffic channel and signaling channel
interception and processing are located at different sites
for the C band and the L band. The remote sensor station
(ARPEGE IRMA-4G) is connected to the central station
(ARPEGE IRIS-4G) via a wide area network (WAN), and is
remote-controlled from the central station.

System structure
The figure below shows an ARPEGE ISIS-4GlARPEGE
IRIS-4G central station that intercepts GMR-2 duplex contents by means of an ARPEGE IRMA4G remote sensor.
For two-way interception of voice channels, the hardware
for traffic channel and signaling channel processing must
be distributed symmetrically at the central station and
the remote site. In other words, there must be an equal
number of subband processing units (ARPEGE IRIS-SBUI
ARPEGE IRMA-SBU) provided at the central station and at
the remote site. This is necessary to ensure that an equal
pool of resources is available to capture the forward and
the return link of a voice connection.
The remote satellite monitoring system contains the
following components:
I Fixed L band antenna at remote site (ARPEGE IM-AL)
I Subband selection unit for C band signals at central
station (included in ARPEGE IRIS-4G)
I Subband selection unit for L band signals at site of
remote sensor (included in ARPEGE IRMA4G)
I Scalable number of subband processing units for the
L band and the C band (ARPEGE IRIS-SBUIARPEGE
IRMA-SBU)

Iperating principle of the ARPEGE IRMA-4G satellite monitoring system

1

I

Gateway station

ARPEGE ISIS-4G/IRIS-4G/IRMA-4G Satellite M~bnitoringSystem 11

Functional description
Subbands assigned to each other in the L band and in the
C band are received at different sites. They are digitally
downconverted (DDC), and each subband is dispatched
via a LAN to an SBU at the respective site. The traffic
channels and signaling channels are then processed in
the same manner as in the ARPEGE IRIS4G system. Each
SBU can process up to four subbands (for detailed information about subband units, refer to the specifications at
the end of this product brochure).
I # .

a

a

C - - - - - - -

I

-

A

I

-

A

9

The SBUs at the central station and at the remote site are
connected to one another via a WAN. This connection is
used to transport encrypted and plain contents from the
remote sensor to the central station. Plus, the WAN is
used for configuring and controlling the remote sensor.
It is also possible to install a workstatlon for contents
analysis at the sensor site (analysis workstation not
included in ARPEGE IRMA-4G).

Central monitoring
station
(central area)

----------------,

Remote sensor
(remote areas)

~.J-.
I

A

,UWkkW U~Frd'tlWFI

h data processin
at a later stage

The monitoring system is capable of handling failures
in the data transmission between the central station
'
(ARPEGE IRIS-4G) and the remote sensor station (ARPEGE
IRMA-4G). If interruptions occur, the subband units involved automatically switch to isolated operation and store
the intercepted data. When the link is re-established later,
the stored intercepted data is processed offline.

R R G F PRMA-I R

ARPEGE IRMA-4G supports downtimes of up to five min, utes. The ARPEGE IRMA-LR option allows longer downtimes to be covered.

Eubband (L]

l

.
-----------

-'b-

l"'

Central monltorlng statlon
(central area)

ARPEGE IRIS4G
Contents monrtorlng
- - - - - * - - - m -

ARPEGE IR-MB-4G

- - m - - - - - - - -

:$;$@yis

&&:I&,O.
:

I

Remote sensor
(remote areas)
l

Seamless intelligence
by reconstructing
intercepted G MR-2
data

ARPEGE IRMA4G supports downtirres in the data trans.
mlsslon between ARPEGE IRIS-4G arid ARPEGE I RMA4G
of up to five minutes. Longer downtirnes place greater
demands on memory capacity and olfline processing. The
ARPEGE IRMA-LR link recovery and replay option provides
the customer with seamless intelligence. Even though the
dedicated line between the central stiation and the remote
sensor station in the target area may be down for several
hours, the GMR-2 data intercepted during isolated operation can be reconstructed at a later time.
ARPEGE also provides custom-tailored, project-specific
hybrid solutions. If the broadband dedicated line goes
down, the system switches to isolated operation and can
automatically establish a narrowband backup link (e.g. via
VSAT or mobile radio). The resource rnanagement function transmits interception-related information (IRI) and
selected call contents (CC) via the narrowband backup
link. Despite the limited WAN connection, the customer
can largely continue to gain intelligenze about missionrelevant GMR-2 subscribers. For further information
and to select the best solution, please contact our Sales
department.

ARPEGE ISIS-4G/IRIS-4G/IRMA-4GSatellite Monitoring System 13

Monitoring
fax and data
communications

Fax and circuit-switched data communications account for
only a small portion of all GMR-2 traffic. Subscribers need
a special data cable and a PC in order to send fax or e-mail
messages via a GMR-2 mobile phone.

Demodulation and channel decoding
Fax and data information is transmitted via logical traffic
channels at higher data rates. The call setup procedure
for fax and data transmissions is in the beginning identical to that used for voice links. At the end of the call setup
procedure - i.e. after authentication - a reallocation to traffic channels with a higher transmission rate takes place.
Compared with logical voice channels, the decoding of
fax and data channels requires twice or three times the
amount of resources.
Source decoding
Intercepted fax data is converted to a readable picture format (source decoding). For data links, intercepted binary
data is analyzed by means of a data decoder and represented in a suitable format.
The optional ARPEGE IRIS-DAF data and fax expansion
includes all components necessary to intercept fax and
data traffic, i.e.:
I Channel decoder software for SBUs
I Data decoder for decoding data traffic
I GMR-2 fax source decoder

Convenient,
subscriber-oriented
analysis with the
ARPEGE monitoring
center

GMR-2 activity analysis software
The data stored in the database is subjected to extensive
analysis using the system-specific software. Analysis can
be carried out according to spot-beam-specific or time
criteria, and can also be correlated with information gained
from other sources. Operators can use predefined filters or
generate database queries of their own using a convenient
input mask. Results are displayed in a table andlor graphically on a digital spot beam map. A number of tools are
available to help operators configure and operate the system in line with their specific requirements, thus optimizing work efficiency. The various events displayed on the
map are assigned different colors and symbols, which can
be configured by the operator.
The operator can define alarm criteria, e.g.:
I Calls from a specific area (GMR-2 spot beam)
I Specific lMSl activity

I

Map display (example)

The map display can be filtered according to a variety of
criteria. The operator can choose between a global display and the display of an operator-defined region. Zoom
functions are also available. Additional information can
be called up for each region on the map by selecting the
specific spotbeam.

!

ore than 50 calls

I

1

Between 1 1 and 50 calls
:tween 1 and 10 calls

s t of results (example)
I

;if

Spot beam

105
105
105
l
105
1105
--

-

P

--

rype or activr
-ocatron upda.Mobile-originatedcall
Location update
Mobile-originatedcall
Response to paging
Location update
Response to paging
-.-- - call
Mobile-originated
-p
P

p

F power
,.ass 3
Class 3
l Class 4
' Class 3
CYn3
I Class 2
class 2
I ass 3

/

1

I
-.

a

--

ARPEGE ISIS4GlIRIS4G11RMA4G Satellite Monitoring System 15

Operational concept for contents analysis
The supervisor defines the spot beams that are to be further
processed. The spot beams are selected from an electronic
map that displays the spot beam footprints. Mission-relevant
GMR-2 session contents are stored on the session server,
which is part of the ARPEGE monitoring center. The monitoring center software offers tools and functions supporting
the following operations for strategic contents analysis:
I Tasking
I Processing
I Analysis
I Reporting
Operators administrate the object data of subscribers of interest in the target database as required for the mission to
be performed. To identify new subscribers, all calls can be
stored in the session database in the open-channel mode.
The database application allows calls to be filtered, e.g. according to specific areas, area codes, telephone numbers,
identities (IMEI, IMSI) and other GMR-2-specific parameters.
Any combination of filter criteria can be used. The session
database automatically assigns sessions to specific operators, who are defined in the target database. The operators
assess the recorded information and, if appropriate, generate reports, or log calls in the subscriber history lists in the
target database. Evaluators can display the spot beams in
which GMR-2 subscribers are active on an electronic map.

INetwork analyrer viewer (example)

Phone
.-L>.

I

\ \ l ///
Object 0-Bos!

Components of contents analysis subsystem
Contents analysis is performed by means of the following
components:
I Session server with mass memory and ARPEGE monitoring center (redundant session server system optionally
available on request)
I Workstations for GMR-2 mobile activity analysis
(one workstation included in ARPEGE ISIS-4G)
I Workstations for GMR-2 contents analysis
The workstations for contents analysis are suitable for
users operating at different hierarchical levels and handling different tasks. Access rights and security levels can
be individually defined and administrated by means of the
integrated user management. The number of workstations
can be scaled to customer's requirements.

Network analysis
The ARPEGE monitoring center software includes analysis
tools that support evaluators in determining relationships
between subscribers that are difficult to recognize in the
result lists produced by a database query. The identification of communications between subscribers is based on
phone numbers and on GMR-2-specific identities, see figure "Network analyzer viewer (example)".

Safe investment
due to sustained
system concept
The rapid advances in satellite communications and the
relatively short life cycles of satellite services require economic and future-ready interception concepts also in the
area of satellite intelligence (Satlnt). Satellite operators
implement new services by means of firmware updates
of their satellites (space segment). Plus, new services
converge to yield uniform procedures and standards
(spot beam technology, FDMA, TDMA, DAMA).
The principles for monitoring and intercepting the various types of GMR-based systems are nearly identical.
The ARPEGE ISIS-4GlIRIS-4GlIRMA-4G GMR-2 satellite
monitoring systems therefore use a universal hardware
platform. An existing GMR-2 monitoring system can be
expanded to include a Thuraya (GMR-1) monitoring system by adding nearly the same hardware components as
used in the existing system. Comprehensive SNMP-based
system management and health monitoring supplement
cross-system servicing and monitoring of the system software and hardware.

System overview
The ARPEGE ISIS-4GlIRIS-4GlIRMA-4G satellite monitoring system includes the following components:
IARPEGE ISIS4G ACeSIISAT activity monitoring system
I ARPEGE IRIS4G ACeSIISAT contents monitoring system
(requires ARPEGE ISIS-4G)
r ARPEGE IRMA-4G remote ACeSIISAT contents monitoring sensor
I ARPEGE IRIS-SBUIARPEGE IRMA-SBU ACeSIISAT
subband unit (suitable for use with ARPEGE IRIS4G and
ARPEGE IRMA-4G)
I ARPEGE IRIS-CON ACeSIISAT C-band-only option
(for one-way interception of traffic in remote spot beams
without a remote sensor)
I ARPEGE IRIS-DAF ACeSIISAT data and fax option
I ARPEGE IRMA-LR ACeSIISAT link recovery and replay
option
I ARPEGE IM-AC C band antenna system
IARPEGE IM-AL L band antenna system

ARPEGE ISIS4G and ARPEGE ISISQG-X
The required monitoring bandwidth may vary depending on the type of satellite being monitored (ACeS or
INMARSAT). ARPEGE ISIS4G provides full-band activity
detection for ACeS monitoring. For GMR-2 activities over
INMARSAT satellites, which operate in a wider frequency
range, ARPEGE ISIS4G needs to be expanded to provide
full-band activity detection (ARPEGE ISIS-4G + ARPEGE
ISIS-4G-X).

I mapping for ACeS
U "U"",

L "U""

3 , ".,""'I",

I

l

I

C band/L band frequency
j mapplng for INMARSAT
Full-band actlvlty monitor~ng
for ACeS
Full-band actlvlty monltorlng
for INMARSAT
l - ..
.

m

I

I

,

I

l
m

l -

-

/ Feature

/ Activity monitoring

/

I

Determinationof uplinkldownlink
frequency mapping

p

1

S

Working principle
I
Interception of SDCCH contents
1
of a satellite footprint by means of
wideband concept
I
Osto5s
(the actual time needed is a
stochastic value)

Information provided by ARPEGE ISIS-4G:
I Timestamp

r Spot beam ID
I Reason for

activating the mobile phone (e.g. mobileoriginated call, response to paging, location update)
I lMSl of satellite terminal (SIM card)
ARPEGE ISIS-4G/IRIS-4G/IRMA-4G Satellite Monitoring System 17

j

ARPEGE IRIS-4GlARPEGE IRMA-4G
Information additionally provided by ARPEGE IRIS-4G/
ARPEGE IRMA4G (as compared to ARPEGE ISIS4G):
I Called telephone number (mobile-originated call)
I Caller's telephone number (mobile-terminated call)
I Identifying characteristics, e.g. IMEl of mobile phone,
lMSl of SIM card
I Recorded call contents, e.g. voice, fax or data
The RF frontend of ARPEGE IRIS4G has the type designation ARPEGE IRIS-CL and supports the processing of up
to 32 subbands of the GMR-2 system by means of digital
downconversion (DDC). ARPEGE IRIS-CL has 24 unused
slots for ARPEGE IRIS-SBU subband units. The configuration depends on requirements (two-way interception or
one-way interception).
See also section "System configuration - example".
The RF frontend of ARPEGE IRMA4G has the type designation ARPEGE IRMA-L and supports the processing of up
to 32 subbands of the GMR-2 system by means of digital
downconversion.
ARPEGE IRMA-L has 12 unused slots for ARPEGE
IRMA-SBU subband units. The use of more than 24 (12)
SBUs in ARPEGE IRIS4G (ARPEGE IRMA4G) is possible.
The number of digitally downconvertable (DDC) subbands
per frontend is scalable (expandable). Please contact our
Sales department.
'

ARPEGE IRIS-4GlARPEGE IRMA4G supports downtimes
of the WAN between the central station and the remote
sensor station of up to five minutes. Longer interruptions
are covered by the ARPEGE IRMA-LR option.

ARPEGE IRIS-SBUIARPEGE IRMA-SBU GMR-2
subband unit
Supports GMR-2 subband processing:
I Two-way interception in standard mode (requires two
DDCs per SBU)
I One-way interception in remote mode (requires one DDC
per SBU)
Processes all logical subband channels (SCH, BCCH,
AGCH, SDCCH, SACCH).
Channel capacity is typically 32 voice channels, or up to
40 voice channels in the case of multiple subbands within
a GMR-2 spot beam. The monitoring of GMR-2 hot spots
is supported. Please contact our Sales department.

Feature
Spot beams per SBU
(standard or remote mode)
Subband processing capaclty per
SBU
Sess~onslchannels
per subband
- -

Value
1

up to 4 subbands per spot beam
up to 40 (32 typ~cal)

ARPEGE IRIS-CON GMR-2 C-band-only
Enables any ARPEGE IRIS-SBU subband unit to be operated in C-band-only mode. This mode allows one-way
interception of communications in remote regions without the use of a remote sensor. ARPEGE IRIS-CON adds
a third operating mode to each subband unit (ARPEGE
IRIS-SBU) contained in the monitoring system. All subband units support the following modes of operation:
I Two-way interception in standard mode (requires two
DDCs per ARPEGE IRIS-SBU)
I One-way interception in remote mode (requires one DDC
per ARPEGE IRIS-SBUIARPEGE IRMA-SBU)
I One-way interception in C-band-only mode (requires one
DDC per ARPEGE IRIS-SBU)
ARPEGE IRIS-DAF GMR-2 data and fax
Monitoring of circuit-switched GMR-2 data and fax services. Conversion of call contents to a readable format.
ARPEGE IRIS-DAF includes a fax source decoder and a
data source decoder.

ARPEGE IRMA-LR GMR-2 link recovery and replay
If the data link fails, the first five minutes are covered
by the system's basic configuration (ARPEGE IRIS-4Gl
ARPEGE IRMA4G). ARPEGE IRMA-LR supports extended
downtimes of the WAN between the central station and
the remote sensor starting at the sixth minute. ARPEGE
IRMA-LR enables the second processing step for GMR-2
data intercepted by ARPEGE IRIS4G and ARPEGE IRMABG during isolated operation. If the dedicated line
between the central station and the remote sensor goes
down for several hours, the data intercepted during this
time can be reconstructed at a later time. For further information about ARPEGE IRMA-LR, refer to section "Requirements on data link to remote sensor".
ARPEGE also offers project-specific hybrid solutions for
use with narrowband links. For more information, refer
to "Seamless intelligence by reconstructing intercepted
GMR-2 data".

ARPEGE IM-AC C band antenna system1
ARPEGE IM-AL L band antenna system
The size and configuration of the antenna systems vary
depending on the position of the monitoring system within
the GMR-2 coverage zone. The C band receiving antenna
typically has a diameter of approx. 7 m. The L band antenna typically consists of a flat panel with an edge length of
approx. 60 cm. Antenna systems are supplied project-specifically. Existing C band receiving antennas can be taken
into consideration if necessary.

ARPEGE IRMA-T retrofit kit for transport of
remote sensor
Remote sensors are typically used in a stationary scenario.
For operation in semi-mobile applications, the ARPEGE
IRMA-T retrofit kit is available to simplify transport of the
remote sensor. ARPEGE IRMA-T includes carrier cases and
cables adapted to ARPEGE IRMA4G.

ARPEGE ISIS-4GIIRIS-4GIIRMA-4GSatellite Monitoring System 19

System configuration
example

Camponents of remote sensor A

-

Remote sensor A for L band monitoring is based on
ARPEGE IRMA4G and consists of the following components:
I ARPEGE IRMA-L remote GMR-2 contents monitoring
sensor core for traffic channel monitoring
I 4 X ARPEGE IRMA-SBU GMR-2 subband unit
I ARPEGE IM-AL L band antenna system
I ARPEGE IRMA-LR link recovery and replay option
I ARPEGE IRMA-T retrofit kit for transport of remote
sensor

The system discussed in this example consists of one
central station and two remote sensor stations. The figure
on the next page illustrates the configuration and components of the ARPEGE ISIS-4G/IRIS-4G/IRMA-4Gexample
system. The figure below shows the geographic perspective. The dashed line represents the border of an example
country.

Components of remote sensor B
Remote sensor B for L band monitoring is based on
ARPEGE MARTINE4G and consists of the following
components:
I ARPEGE MARTINE-4G transportable GMR-2 sensor
IARPEGE MARTINE-F retrofit kit for transportable GMR-2
sensor

Components of central station
The central station for C band and L band monitoring
discussed here consists of the following components:
I ARPEGE ISIS-4G GMR-2 activity monitoring system
including one workstation
I ARPEGE IRIS-CL GMR-2 contents monitoring system
core for traffic channel monitoring
I 9 X ARPEGE IRIS-SBU GMR-2 subband unit
I ARPEGE IRIS-CON GMR-2 C-band-only option
I ARPEGE IM-AC C band antenna system
I ARPEGE IM-AL L band antenna system
I ARPEGE monitoring center

-

I

eographic perspective - example country
Remote sensor A

I

Central monitoring station

\

l

I

l

r

Remote sensor B

The subband unit included in ARPEGE MARTINE-4G is
connected to the stationary GMR-2 monitoring system.
In conjunction with the ARPEGE MARTINE-F retrofit kit,
the transportable GMR-2 sensor operates in remote mode.
ARPEGE MARTINE-F has free slots which can be installed
with additional SBUs (ARPEGE IRMA-SBU).

300 km
to 600 km

1

The system supervisor can dynamically allocate the SBUs
to the mission-relevant spot beams.

Factors determining sy!

:onfigwrat

The number of active G l v ~ n rrluuile
-~
phorles vdrles from
region to reglon. The number of GMR-2 activities within
a region can change as a result of external influences
(e.g. natural disasters, major events, unrest). The focus on
missions and areas of interest for operations will change
accordingly.
In the example configuration discussed here, a total
of nine ARPEGE IRIS-SBUs are provided at the central
station. The ARPEGE IRIS-SBUs support three modes of
operation:
ITwo-way interception in standard mode (requires two
DDC channels per SBU)
I One-way intercept~onin remote mode in conjunction
with a remote sensor (requires one DDC channel per
SBU plus one common DDC pilot channel)
I One-way interception in C-band-only mode (requires
one DDC channel per SBU plus one common DDC pilot
channel)
The RF frontend of ARPEGE IRIS-4G supports the processing of up to 32 DDC subbands. Each DDC subband has
(typically) 32 voice channels. Up to 16 ARPEGE IRIS-SBUs
can therefore be operated ~ntwo-way intercept~onmode
in conjunction with an RF frontend. This ylelds a channel

Depending on the area of interest and the missions t o be
performed, channel capacity can be distributed in different
ways between the central station and the remote sensors.

capacity of 512 duplex voice channels. In the example
configuration discussed here, the channel capacity is
288 duplex voice channels for local coverage (9 X 32).
Alternatively, all nine ARPEGE IRIS-SBUs of the central
station can be operated in one-way interception mode,
yielding a channel capacity of typically 288 simplex voice
channels. The ARPEGE IRMA-SBUs of the two remote
sensor stations A and B process the local L band downlinks. In conjunction with the ARPEGE IRIS-SBUs of the
central station being operated in remote mode, this results
in a total of typically 288 duplex voice channels (two
remote sensors plus the central station).

For further questions regarding the scaling of the channel
capacity of the GMR-2 (ACeSIISAT) monitoring system and
the required number of remote sensors, please contact
our Sales department.

IConfiguration and components of ARPEGE ISIS-4G/IRIS-4G/IRMA-4G example system

I

I
I
I
I

I
I

(free expanslon

I

ARPEGE IM-AC

sII

(free expansion s
(free expansion z

I
I
I
I

Ifroo ovn3nrinn r

(free expar

)

(free expansion :

1

expansion :

Remote sensor
B
ARPEGE IM-AL

ARPEGE IM-AL
:entral monitorin,
station

(free expansion r
WAN
ARPEGE IRMA-I
ARPEGE IRMA-I

Remote sensor

ARPEGE ISIS-4GIIRIS4GIIRMA-4G Satellite Monitoring S y s t e m 21

Specifications
in brief

The ARPEGE ISIS-4GlIRIS-4GlIRMA4G GMR-2 satellite monitoring system has been designed for handling
the frequency ranges and procedures used in the GMR-2
system.

Receiving system
Frequency range, C band
Receivingantenna

3600 MHz to 3800 MHz
7.3 m to 9 m parabolic antenna (ARPEGE IM-AC),
righthand and lefthand circular polarization
140 MHz
2 X 40 MHz (ARPEGE ISIS-4G)
4 X 40 MHz (ARPEGE ISIS-4G + ARPEGE ISIS-4G-X)
1525 MHz to 1559 MHz
(ARPEGE IM-AL) receiving antenna, circular polarization
140 MHz
34 MHz
scalable number of processing units in a system

lntermediatefrequency
Bandwidth
Frequency range, L band
Receiving antenna
lntermediatefrequency
Bandwidth
Signal processlng
ARPEGE ISIS4GIARPEGE I S I S 4
Activity monitoring

+ ARPEGE ISIS-4GX

Determinationof uplinkldownlink frequency mapping
lnformation provided by ARPEGE ISIS-4G

ARPEGE IRIS-4GIARPEGE I R M A 4
lnformation additionally provided by ARPEGE IRIS-4GlARPEGE IRMA-4G
(as compared to ARPEGE ISIS4G)

ARPEGE IRIS-SBUIARPEGE IRMA-SBU
Spot beams per SBU (standard or remote mode)
Subband processlng capac~typer SBU
Sess~ons/channels
per subband
- - --

-

,/

lnterceptlon of SDCCH contents of a satellite footprint by means of
w~debandconcept
0 s to 5 S (the actual tlme needed 1s a stochastlc value)
I t~mestamp
I spot beam ID
I reason for actlvatlng the moblie phone (e g mob~le-ortg~nated
call,
response to paglng, locat~onupdate)
I lMSl of satell~tetermlnal (SIM card)
I called telephone number

(mobile-originatedcall)
caller's telephone number (mobile-terminatedcall)
I identifying characteristics, e.g. IMEl of mobile phone, lMSl of SIM card
i I recorded call contents, e.g. voice, circuit-switched data or fax
I

I

~

1
up to 4 subbands w~thinone spot beam
up
to 40 (32 typical)
- .. -

Requirements on data link to remote sensor
In general, a permanent data link is required between the
remote L band sensor and the central station. The required
data rate for transmissions between the central station and
the remote sensor depends on the following factors:
I GMR-2 traffic density at site of remote sensor
I Number of SBUs at site of remote sensor
I Type (VPN or proprietary) and extent of encryption;
this determines the data overhead
Remote sensors can be connected to the central station
via a dedicated symmetrical or asymmetrical line with
an ensured data rate of 2 Mbitls or higher. A data rate of
2 Mbitls permits the simultaneous processing of 120 channels (at permanent full capacity). In the uplink, the sensor sends L band raw data to the central station. A G.703
frame relay or an ISDN 2SM unframed link should be used
as a data link. Other types of data links are available on
request (e.g. VSAT). The round trip time should be shorter
than one second.

Ordering information
l Type

Designation

1 ACeSIISAT Activity Monitoring System

I Order No.

ARPEGE ISIS-4G

on request

ACeSJISAT Activity Monitoring Expansion

ARPEGE ISIS-4G-X

on request

ACeSIISAT Contents Monitoring System Core

ARPEGE IRIS-CL

on request

ARPEGE ISIS-L

on request

/ ACeSlISAT Subband Unit

ARPEGE IRIS-SBU

on request

/

ARPEGE IRMA-SBU

on request

I ACeSllSAT C-Band-Only Option

ARPEGE IRIS-CON

on request

( ACeSIISAT Data and Fax Option

ARPEGE IRIS-DAF

on request

ARPEGE IRMA-LR

on request

ARPEGE IRMA-T

on request

ARPEGE IM-AC

on request

1 Remote ACeSllSAT Contents Monitoring Sensor Core
ACeSllSAT Subband Unit

i

ACeSIISAT Link Recovery and Replay Option

l Retrof~t. Kit. for Transport of Remote Sensor
1 C Band Antenna System
'

L Band Antenna System

I

L
-

P
-

-

ARPEGE IM-AL
-- - .

-

P
P

--

P

.

on request
P

--

P
P

--

.

The system components are not sold as single products. Additional system components, licenses and services are
required depending on the system and its configuration. For information about configuration and licensing, please
contact our Sales department.

ARPEGE will help you determine the optimum solution for your requirements.
You will find us at
conract@arpege-!3as.com

Types of intercepted information

, Type o f event

l Networks

/

Mob~le-or~g~nated
call1' ISAT to other

; bailed No.
l m

1 Calling No.
l

I llv~a~

Location 41

i

Mobile-terminatedcall1'! Other to ISAT
Mob~le-to-mob~lell

: ISAT

Locat~onupdate3'
lMSl detach4'

a 2)

Power on

, Power off

ISAT to other
SMS
outgo~nglincoming~~

'l

*'
3'

'l

a 2)

-

Voice calls only.
If both ISAT mobile phones are within monitoring range.
Only during initial registration in a spot beam.
Not existing in ISAT networks.

ISAT CDR C-band-onlv mode
IType
o f event
Networks

,

S

Moblle-or~g~nated
call1' ISAT to other

m
Called No.
a

Mobile-terminatedcall1) Other to ISAT
Mob~le-to-mob~lel)
Locat~onupdate3'
lMSl detach4'
SMS
outgoing/incoming4'

Calling No.

lMSl
a

a

' ISAT

Power on

Location 4'

2'

a

1 Power off

ISAT to other

--

'l

Half-duplex voice calls (one-way interception) only.

4'

If both ISAT mobile phones are within monitoring range.
Only during initial registration in a spot beam.
Not existing in ISAT networks.

ARPEGE ISIS-4G/IRIS-4G/IRMA-4GSatellite Monitoring System 23

mwwarpege-sas.ectm
Arpege S.A.S., ZE Athelia 111753, Voie Antdope
13600 La Ciotat France
Phone: +33 442 84 47 95
Fax: +33 442 84 47 96
contact@arpege-sas.mrn
Trade names are tfadernarksof the owners I Prhflted In Frmm )%6
PD 5214.3630.12 1 Version 01.Q01 May 2010
Data without tol~eranoelimits L not b~ndhgI Subject to ~haneps
ARPEGE ISIS4GtIRIS-4GIIRMA-4G
O 2010 Arphge S.A S. I 13600 La Clatat I Frame

