GEOLOCATION NETWORKING
FOR THE MD-405A
L-3 Linkabit offers a complete Geolocation Networking package for the MD-405A
Signals Intelligence (SIGINT) System that incorporates all the features of the Remote
Host Control Human Machine Interface (HMI) including signal processing displays,
signal search, and database capabilities plus a Geolocation Network. The Geolocation
Network uses multiple laptop computers connected to MD-405A SIGINT receivers across
a network to synthesize and display results that provide the correlation and manipulation
of multiple MD-405A SIGINT receivers from a Master Station. The Master Station can
control remote outstations and be equipped with an MD-405A SIGINT receiver.
The Geolocation Network communications configuration can be provided through any
combination of the following to meet the needs of the mission:
• L-3 Linkabit’s WAVpac Multi-band Radio
• Standard TCP-IP Connection
• PSTN through standard or dedicated phone lines
• Direct connection through RS-232
The standard Geolocation Network is comprised of one Master
Station and one or more remote station; however, two or more
remote stations provide the best results. The Master Station
synthesizes the results of its own Line of Bearing (LOB) and that of
the remote stations to provide a best estimate of the location of the
emitter. Each time the location of the emitter can be determined, a
fix is displayed on the map. After a series of fixes is obtained, the
system displays a best guess of the emitter’s location.
The Geolocation Network also provides the capability to remotely
operate a Geolocation Network from a Command Post. The Command Post communicates
with the Master Station of a single or multiple Geolocation Networks. The Command
Post sends Direction Finding requests to the Master Station and receives back reports
from each Master Station.

Geolocation Networking for the MD-405A

GEOLOCATION NETWORK FEATURES
Flexible network architecture connects nodes with any combination of:
• Linkabit’s WAVpac multi-band radio
• Standard TCP/IP Networking
• Direct RS-232 connection
• Standard or dedicated phone lines through a modem
Enhanced Geolocation Network Features:
• “Flash the Net” – Remote station can request the network immediately tune and perform Geolocation
on a specific signal
• “Stare Operation” – Each remote can be programmed to look for up two different signals. When
found, the entire network will immediately tune and perform Geolocation on the signal. Stare is
programmable for signal level and duration
• Command Post capability to remotely control a Geolocation Network
Mapping software supports numerous formats including:
DTED

ADRG/CIB

Arc Grid

ESRI Shape Files

GeoTIFF

Standard Bitmaps

JPEG2000

KML/KMZ

In addition, Geolocation software’s Embedded Map Utility supports the export of Google Earth images for
use as a map file.
Encryption provided between Nodes. (PC Based 256 Bit AES)
Geolocation Network Operator Diagnostics Include:
• An enhanced BIT/diagnostic screen
• Ping Testing with confirmation between active nodes
• A Chat Interface between nodes on the network
Separate User and Administrator Screens (Administrator Screens are Password Protected).
Master or Remote Relationship can be established for any node, for each mission, since
common software runs on all nodes.
Master Station synthesizes the result from all nodes. Results can be sent to a Command Post or the remotes
for analysis and tasking.

Note: All specifications subject to change without notice

Cleared by Do D/OSR for public release under
OSR Case Number 0 8-S-0647 on March 12, 2008.

LINKABIT DIVISION
3 0 3 3 S C I E N C E PA R K R O A D , S A N D I E G O , C A 9 2 1 2 1
( 8 5 8 ) 5 5 2 - 9 5 5 5 FA X ( 8 5 8 ) 5 5 2 - 9 6 6 8 W W W. L - 3 C O M . C O M
Product Ser vice Help Desk: 1-800-331-9401
e-mail: LinkabitProducts@L-3com.com
1078061009

