THALES

www.thalesgroup. corn

c

Understanding cyber security
and organisations around the
basis and it can be difficult to
they come from, and most of
and your organisation.

is a challenge faced by all businesses
world. New threats emerge on a daily
understand what they are and where
all, what impact they can have on you

Thales has over 40 years' experience of delivering cyber security
solutions to customers across a range of industries, including
defence, security, government and commercial businesses.
This extensive experience has provided us with a detailed understanding of the issues you face and we have developed a clear methodology t o help you become cyber aware, understand the depth and
breadth of your cyber security issues, and recommend the best way
forward to enable you to successfully manage your cyber security
risks.
Whether you are looking t o gain an initial understanding of your
organisations' cyber security risks, or form a strategic partnership
t o guide you from the discovery stage through to being fully cyber
aware and secure, Thales has the cyber solutions and experience t o
meet your requirements.
Thales - here t o help you through the process of understanding how
best to manage your cyber security, now and in the future.

THALES

Thales UK
2 Dashwood Lang Road
The Bourne Business Park
Addlestone, N r Weybridge
Surrey KT15 2NX
Tel: + 4 4 [0]1932 8 2 4 8 0 0
www.thalesgroup. com/uk

THALES

THALES

@

Vulnerability Assessment
Global Cyber Solutions

In the digital age cyber space is a foundation for
all of our daily activities. There are new threats
emerging on a daily basis and it can sometimes
be difficult to know which you are at risk from
and how severe the impact of these threats
could be.
At Thales, we have a detailed understanding of
the cyber domain and the range of threats our
customers face.
We have developed a methodology of helping you
to understand your specific cyber domain, and
how you can reduce the threats you face and
become both cyber aware and cyber secure.
Our vulnerability assessment service will provide
you with a detailed report on your vulnerabilities
and a range of recommendations to help you
overcome these issues. This low cost service will
not only enable you to become cyber aware, but
also give you a detailed understanding on cyber
security and the elements included within it.

www.thalesgroup. corn

~

National Security & Resilience

Vulnerability Assessment

The purpose
Undertake an exercise to determine the extent of
vulnerability within an infrastructure or web application.
How we do it:

Preliminary Assessment: Prior to any work being
undertaken our security consultants will work with your
staff to determine the business objectives of the exercise
and ascertain whether the vulnerability assessment is in
response to a direct threat, security breach, or simply as a
check to ensure systems are healthy and in good security
order. Many organisations are required to meet stringent
regulatory requirements surrounding thier security and
safety. Whatever the need or motivation we can tailor a
service to suit your requirements.
Proposal: The preliminary work will result in delivery of a
detailed proposal tailored to your individual needs.
VulnerabilityAssessment: Using a combination of manual
and automated tools and techniques, our highly skilled
security consultants will undertake analysis of the target
infrastructure or web application in order to determine the
existence of and the extent of any vulnerabilities. The
findings of the testing are mapped against good practice.
All vulnerabilities are then categorised against a criteria of
Criticality, Exploitability, Impact and Probability; this will
illustrate the true risk levels and provide "incontext" advice
as to how this could potentially impact your organisation.
Deliverable: Reports are tailored t o meet the needs of the
Customers but in general we take pride in delivering high
quality professional reports that outlines clearly the
vulnerabilities identified during the assessment, their
potential business impact and more importantly,
recommends processes for remediation. The reports are
designed to be relevant and readable at all levels from Cl0
board-level to the technical teams responsible for the IT
Systems. We further aim to reduce technical jargon to a
minimum whilst maintaining a high-quality and usable
report. In addition, we are able to provide technical
briefings and security awareness training to support the
improvement of systems following on from the deliverable
report.

Thales
Mountbatten House, Basing View, Basingstoke, RG21 4HJ

@ Holistic Auditing
Global Cyber Solutions

.
.

L

Holistic Auditing - The 360"approach to security
encompassing all factors rather than just the
electronic security considerations.
This phase reviews all IT and Information Assets,
the applicable threats and vulnerabilities. It
considers the security of a business as a complete
entity rather than just a series of disconnected
elements.
This operates on the Thales doctrine: HELP
m

m
m

m

Human
Environmental
Logical
Physical

Our holistic audits will help
you to understand the cyber
threat

www.thalesgroup. corn

I

Holistic Audits

National Security 6 Resilience
There are many factors that can impact on your level of cyber
security. Many of these may not have previous been considered.
These could include:
Physical Security - Are your premises monitored by
CCTV? Are there door access control mechanisms for
potentially business sensitive areas? Are physical security
measures circumvented for ease of use? Are your staff
required to display company ID badges? Are unbadged
visitors challenged?
Personnel Security - Do your employees understand their
role in Security? Are new starters subject t o vetting, be
that CRB, Credit Checking etc
Procedural Security - What processes are in place to
protect your security interests? Do employees sign and
understand the computer usage policy? What measures
are in place to monitor access to sensitive information?
Are passwords changed when a breach is detected?
By identifying and considering the impact of vulnerabilities in
these areas together the overall impact on security can be
determined, We understand that security is not limited to any
one single element and that cyber assurance should be
considered in a holistic environment.
Holistic audits begin by engaging with you to determine your
requirements and from them derive the best way forward. From
this initial discussion we produce a proposal that is submitted to
you for approval before the assignment commences. The
proposal will outline your objectives, the methodology and actions
to be undertaken by us to assist in meeting these objectives. At
this point the deliverables and timescales are also defined for
the work.
A variety of techniques are used to complete an audit dependant
on the area being assessed. An audit requires significant effort
in assessing policies, physical security measures and working
directly with your team to determine how security is
implemented in your organisation.
The outputs of a HA is a formal report that covers the
vulnerabilities identified across all spheres, including their
potential impact and associated risks to your business if they are
not addressed.

For more information contact us at:

cyber@uk.thalesgroup. corn

Thales
Mountbatten House, Basing View, Basingstoke, RG21 4HJ

@

Cyber Security
Global Cyber Solutions

Thales' cyber offering is structured around
providing customers with a single point of
contact to deal with all of their cyber security
concerns.
At Thales, we recognise that as the cyber threat
evolves rapidly it is often difficult for
organisations to assess whether they are
vulnerable and what they should do to protect
themselves.

l

Thales recognises that each customer is at a
different stage of maturity in managing their
cyber security risk. To reflect this Thales has
created a modular offering that will enable you to
have access to a comprehensive cyber
assurance service while only paying for the
components that are pertinent t o your business.

Thales - committed to
protecting your business
from cyber attack
www.thalesgroup.corn

c

National Security & Resilience

Areas of Expertise

Ourteamof over400cyber securkyexpwts hava
m s i v e e q m h c e of warking with defenoe.
government and civil cusQmw8.We can quicMy
~andunderst;en8~pertinerrttoywrr
business needs.

We are a world leader in prowling modular,
integrated cyber security solutions to meet your
s-c
needs.

*

~ ~ ~ s p e c i f i c
businessopemmls
Pt#Jwm vulnerability and risk
toassssstheriskatoyow.busie8sfrom

~

W

J

r

cVber-

Ibmmmer~d,deqn and implement

*

ataliver*sndmawareneasMryl

Deslgn and implement upgrades ta the
secunty of your existing business with
minimal impact to your business operations.
Pull through capabilities fmrn the global
Thales group and other key technology
companies to deliver secure sdutions that
deliver tangible business benefits
Use our worid leading encryption product
suite to protect your data

Cyber Centre

Services

Our Cyber Centre can be used for a range of activities
including:

We have services to support your business in the
implementation of security requirements in a cost
effective way.

•

W

•

Perfirming Cyber Exercises - testing whether
you have the right recovery and incident
procedures in place when an attack occurs
System Cyber Testing - emulating and testing
existing systems to establish areas most
susceptible to attack
Solution design and testing - using our
engagement strategy across the cyber domain
supply base to provide new integrated
solutions that best suit the risk associated
with your business whilst minimising cost and
operational impact
Cyber Training Facility - enables training of
your employees on cyber issues and provides
awareness of business impact

W

•
W
W

Data and web hosting
Security Operations Centres
Network Operations Centres
Data storage up to IL5

Thales - Simplifying
Your Cyber
Security

cyber@uk.thalesgroup.corn
Thales
National Security and Resilience
Mountbatten House, Basing View, Basingstoke. RG21 4HJ

THALES

@
-

Cyber Domain Expertise
Global Cyber Solutions

Threats to digital systems regularly change and
evolve. Managing the way you assess, monitor and
protect your business assets is key to maintaining
business productivity and continuity. Loss or
exposure of your information can be catastrophic
in both financial and reputational terms.
Thales has a dedicated cyber security team within
the UK that can assess your business needs and
determine the most cost effective way of securing
your information and reducing and managing the
risks affecting your organisation.
Our structured, interactive security engineering
approach, provided by our highly skilled cyber
engineers, utilises governing information security
legislation and regulations to ensure that a
comprehensive, cost effective security solution is
provided.

Thales - providing your
business with the expertise
to solve your problems
www.thalesgroup.corn

Cyber Domain Expertise

National Security & Resilience

Thales has extensive experience in providing end-to-end
security solutions to Government, CNI, finance and military
organisations. Based on our proven expertise in delivering
security solutions, and working within your industrial
domain, we can provide a unique security service to meet
your specific needs.
Backed by industry standard qualifications and
certifications, including CLAS, ClSSP and IS027001 Lead
Auditor, our cyber practitioners are perfectly placed to give
up to the minute advice on the latest technologies and
products whilst remaining vendor neutral.
Our wealth of experience in accreditation and evaluation
processes will allow you to maximise benefit and efficiency
from your relationship with CESG, the Defence Security
Assurance Service (DSAS] and Central Sponsor for
Information Assurance (CSIA], assisting you in achieving
necessary accreditation for your security system.
Thales provides security based solutions tailored to your
specific needs, using proven engineering principles. Our
cyber consultants are able to provide subject matter
expertise across a wide range of security domains, from
risk assessment and mitigation, disaster recovery and
cryptography, to physical security, infrastructure security
and identity and access management.

..

..
,

Our t e a m of cyber domain experts have experience in

, .

CLr
Rc'q~~lat~orl
Inve~ticjatory
of

0ffi
Secrets Act

,

Payment
Industry Card
DSS

Manual of

Secur~ty

CESG IS Policy a

Framework

2

Ser~esof

7

Standards

POLVCA
. ~c t

r F o r more iniormation contact us at:

Thales
Mountbatten House, Basing View, Basingstoke, RG21 4HJ

Cyber@uk.thalesgroup. corn

T H A L E S . .I

@

Penetration Testing
Global Cyber Solutions

4

i?
f

'i

Thales' range of Cyber Security solutions can help
you become cyber aware so that you can fully
understand the threats you face both now, and in
the future. Our penetration testing goes one step
further than our vulnerability assessments and will
highlight how cyber threats against your
organisation could be exploited.
Our penetration tests will demonstrate the real-life
implications of potential security vulnerabilities in a
controlled manner. This is applicable both to
infrastructure and web applications. A penetration
test typically simulates real-life threats posed t o
infrastructure or web applications.

By helping you to understand
how cyber threats can
impact your organisation we
can improve your cyber
assurance
www.thalesgroup.corn

How its done: As an extension of the Vulnerability Assessment,
Penetration Testing goes one step further than just discovering
the vulnerabilities; it seeks to demonstrate what could be
leveraged by an attacker as a result of missing operating
system patches, mis-configured web servers or web
applications.
Preliminary As for Vulnerability Assessments, all engagements
begin with a customer meeting to determine the business
drivers behind the penetration test. Is a new web application
about to be launched do you want to determine whether it is
secure or not, or maybe you are seeking to demonstrate your
network security environment to a potential new client.
Proposal: This clearly identifies the business objectives of the
testing, the scope of the testing whether it be the remote
access portal, web application, network infrastructure and/or
branch office environment, the permissible techniques and
strategies for the security consultant to use. It will also provide
you with a clear indication of the effort required to complete the
assignment.
Penetration Testing: An extension of a basic Vulnerability Testing.
The first step of a penetration test is to determine what
vulnerabilities lie within a particular infrastructure or web
application. Systematic testing allows for the easy identification
of vulnerabilities that may be easily exploited or, yield the
opportunity when perpatrators are attempting t o compromise a
network or application. From this, tested vulnerabilities are
categorised against criticality and exploitability. Once the
exploitable vulnerability points of entry are identified the security
consultant will attempt to gain access to the system or web
application in order to obtain evidence of compromise, this may
be the result of a single vulnerability or by multiple
interconnected vulnerabilities. This evidence is maintained as
substantiated proof and will be documented in the final report.
Deliverable: Reports are tailored t o your individual needs which
will typically be a final report outlining the findings of the
penetration test and include which vulnerabilities were identified,
which were found to be exploitable and what evidence of the
exploit is available. This will provide evidence of which system
was compromised, and was retrieved in order to prove that
access was obtained. The reports are designed to be relevant
and readable at all levels from Cl0 to the technical teams
responsible for the IT systems. The reports are designed to
reduce technical jargon to a minimum while maintaining a
high-quality and usable report.

For more information contact us at:

cyber@uk.thalesgroup.com

Thales
Mountbatten House, Basing View, Basingstoke, RG21 4HJ

K

@ Cyber Centre
Global Cyber Solutions

l!
.A

The modern business environment is reliant upon
interconnected networks and communications.
This leaves businesses vulnerable to cyber
attacks, whether this is interception of bank
transactions, theft of intellectual property or other
malicious and damaging attacks. Effective cyber
security does not need to be expensive but does
require a comprehensive approach.
At Thales we have developed a Cyber Integration
and lnnovation Centre where we integrate
solutions that address customers' concerns; work
with innovative companies to help develop
solutions for tomorrow's problems and bring
evolving technology to the market more effectively.

The Thales Cyber Centre combining lnnovation and
lntegration to protect the
UK's future
www.thalesgroup. corn

Cyber Centre

National Security 6 Resilience
The Thales Cyber lntegration and lnnovation Centre
has been developed to help customers understand
the impact of cyber attacks upon business
operations. Our cyber security experts provide
customers with peace of mind that existing or new
solutions are configured, operated and managed in a
manner that provides maximum security.
The Cyber Centre can be used for a range of
activities including:

Solution design and testing - using our
engagement strategy across the cyber
domain supply base to provide new integrated
solutions that best suit the risk associated
with customers' businesses whilst minimising
cost and operational impact
Cyber lnnovation - performing feasibility
studies on emerging technologies to
determine how they can best support evolving
markets
Cyber Training and Awareness - providing a
facility that enables customer training on
cyber issues and provides awareness of how
it can impact business
Performing lntegration Assessments testing the configuration of customer systems
ensuring maximum return on their investment
Coupled with our own technologies and expertise the
Cyber Centre and its team are committed to helping
small and innovative companies. We can provide the
platform to enable smaller companies to test and
showcase their technologies in a replicated,
real-time environment. This ensures that our
customers have access to cutting edge innovation in
cyber security, anticipating and addressing
tomorrow's problems.

Thales - Committed
to protecting your business

cyber@uk.thalesgroup.com

For more information contact us at:
@

-

~

m

~

-

~

-

m

k

~

~

d

~

~

~

~

~

k

~

t

~

t

o

r

~

l

r

i

t

h

M

p

r

i

a

r

m

r

m

Thales
Mountbatten House, Basing View, Basingstoke, RG21 4HJ

c

-

~

~

U

K

l

I

i

'

@

THALES

Vulnerability Assessment
Case Study - UK Utilities Business

At Thales we recognise that everything in cyber
space is under threat from attack. Stored data,
networks and data transfer systems are all high
risk targets and the results from attack can be
devastating to both business and the individual.
To counteract this threat we have developed a
range of vulnerability assessment techniques
designed to help reduce the impact of these
threats and maintain the integrity of systems
and data.
In our specialist, and accredited, Cyber Centre
we can recreate a network environment in order
to carry out rigorous testing and analysis to
establish the level of security risk and then
develop solutions to overcome these threats.

Thales - protecting your
networks, data and
business assets

www.thalesgroup.corn

Case Study - UK Utility Sector

National Security 6 Resilience

7Customer Reauirement

:

.

. .

. .. . .. . .. . .. . .

. . . . .

Undertake.a vul.nerability.. . . . . . .
assessment6f
.......
..........control rieanrork
..........
for a;:LfKi:utility company.::
..
I

. .. , . . . . .

,.

,

. . .
...

......... . . . . . .
. .. ... .. ,. . .

The Process
Thales identified the business 8ssets that
were core targets and most vulnerable to
a#;ack.

VA techniques were erqhyed to perform
an assessment of active Mllnerabilities.

The Findings

H

II

Recommendations
Thales provided recommendations that
enabled the company to:

L

Immediately resolve the identified
vulnerabilities, by changing
configurations of components
Improve their processes and
procedures
Provide awareness for the staff to
help the company undertake regular
periodic testing of critical business
assets and connected systems
Recommendations for seperating
critical and non-critical networks with
no impact to the business operations

For more information contact us at:

cyber@uk.thalesgroup.corn

Thales
Mountbatten House, Basina View, Basinnstoke, RG21 4HJ

1

Thales identified that whilst the configuration
of the business assets were secure,
connected network infrastructure had
vulnerabilities which exposed the critical
business assets to attack.
Vulnerabilities were identified in:
Use of default passwords and
usernames for 'noncritical'
components that provided a path for
attack to critical assets
Missing patches
Unprotected web pages to printer
system, enabling interception
Remote login pages available with
minimal security

Key L;ustomer trenetlts
This service provided the following benefits t o
the customer:
For minimal cost the customer gained
increased network resilience without any
interruption or impact to their business
operations. The increased resilience
reduced the risk of disruption to the
utility supply hence reducing the risk of
fines from regulators
Employees were made aware of cyber
considerations and how to perform
internal analysis, thus reducing
the risk of future upgrades causing a
vulnerability
Increased awareness of cyber security
for employees

I

