A30
'

excellence in telephone interception systems

The result of over 10 years' collaborationand exchanges
with investigators, the A30* lays down new milestones
in terms of usability, efficiency and security of telephone
interception handling systems.The A30 is the perfect
answer to investigators's work methods and conducting
modern investigations:
quick and easy to handle.
maximum sound quality,
a pleasant and intuitive interface design which ensures
low visual fatigue,

analysis and search functions, used interactivelywith the
Fadetllri analysis software Analyr.
easy opening and closing of the tapping sessions, as
well as exporting, archiving, printing and many other
functions.
Using LinuxlWeb server and freeware (Open Source), the
A30 is a modern and safe system, designed to meet the
requirements of today and tomorrow.
The A30 is operated to the satisfaction of the State's
most demanding investigation services. You too, enjoy the
Amecs' difference: test the A30 free-of-charge ** !

useful information set out in the most effective manner
(documented geo-localisation, numbers and name
management, detailed Fadetllri, SMS in French and in
foreign languages decoded and inserted chronologically),

Telecommunicrtionsam constantly changing, so is
your tapping equipment.

retranscriptions performed directly in a chosen report
model with automatic insertion of the administrative and
technical parameters of the interception,

** Consult us

A30 is approved by the SGDN

W l t h Analys new software for communrcatron data analysrs eac
rnvestlgator wrthout requrrrng the support of a specralrst servlce
has a very effrcrent tool t o untangle leads get a clearer prcture
conduct searches and make the rrght decrsrons quickly and In a
very slmple way
Whether the target IS communrcatrng over the telephone or rnt
therr overall actrvrty IS perfectly controlled analyses on number
names cells geographrcal monrtorrng crossovers behavrour
analyses charnrngs proxrmity and yet more These functrons are
((button type accessrble rn one ~clrck,,
Furthermore, the data IS read automatically* whether rt comes
drrectly from provrders or the FIS (Mrnistry oflustrce) or whether

A sound investment, easy to
is softwanwhich is ~ ~ ga h t
unanimously.

We Invite you to dEmwr it:

at each investigator's disposal.

Tools for all situations...
telephone interception systems,
InternetllP decoding systems,
criminal analysis of HI2 telematic data (Fadetllri ...).
personalised data engineering,
indexing and search engines,
TO and Adsl digital interception probes,

VPN data security.

Amea', a steadily growing French company, investing in
innovation, enjoys a nationally recognised reputation.

Its success lies in high-quality products and services, highlevel expertise in the field of electronic modern investigation
support tools, for the national Security Forces.
The spirit of A m e d is based on providing the customer
with total satisfaction, including relevant services and
personalised support of the very highest level of expertise.
This is precisely what justifies the growth of the company
Amecs".

micro-transmitters.
GPS monitoring devices.
audio signal processing and voice biometrics.

The photos and information in this whole document are non-contractual
The presentations may be changed according to requirements.
Trademarks used here are for illustrative purposes and they remain the
property of their creators.

PE!

Esprit d'innovation

IP3O

conducting I P interceptions, differently !

Propose an easy understanding of a complex technology:
this phrase increasingly finds its meaning in the new
developments at Amca', among which the IP30* is the
jewel.
Despite the singularity of the IP philosophy, the M running,
of the IP3O remains voluntarily close to the working habits
of the investigator, who is called on to conduct telephone
and lnternet interceptions simultaneously.
The IP3O is equipped with an intelligent decoding
engine, perfectly geared to supervising the target's IP
communications**.
With a very pleasant design, the windows are ergonomic,
designed to easily conduct the investigation during its
various phases. Among the innovations is the introduction
of a brand new concept: the time line. It allows the
investigator to have a panoramic view of the target's activity
over time, broken down service by service.

In addition, the IP30 is equipped with interactive search
and indexing functions, which make it possible to filter the
useful pages and to quickly get to the heart of the matter.
From a technical point of view, the IP30 relies on a
pioneering, easily evolving structure, with intelligent
distribution of loads. It uses LinuxlWeb server and freeware
(Open Source).
The lnternet is constantly evolving, the IP30 has been
developed in line with this dynamic. Our engineers provide
you with permanent. personalised assistance. In sum, the
IP30 is an innovative, very hi-tech product, within each
investigator' reach.
With the IP3O. have fewer concerns in the field of lnternetl
IP... Amea" invites you to use it for your next interception.
IP30 is approved by the SGDN

** We are currently developing an application for encrypted files.

7 complete range of telematic networks supervision systems.
ii-tech equipment a t your service, quick and easy to handle,
irgonomic pages. a smart design, quick access to the relevant
nformation in the various phases of the investigation,

A fast. permanent, effective service, provided directly by
engineers who know your requirements well,
Tried-and-tested tools, used everyday to the satisfaction of
the State's most demanding investigation services.

isten, decode, analyze in another way:

