ADVERTISEMENT SYSTEM
InPoint SMS

B Direct GSM contact w~th
the interested people on your

eye-witnesses of
extraordinary situation:
m Firefighters

and

B Flexible
tuning
operation range.
B

--'OM

re

o

High equipment's relia
No analogues in the

The system is designed to send a bulk of advertising SMS messages or
even security messages to handsets in local areas (banks, businesses,
railway stations, shops, hotels, ships, etc.)
The main unit of the system contains GSM-standard BTS. Directional
antennas provide working area (Private zone). Each mobile phone that
passes across this area shows its main identities (IMSI and IMEI) and
generates request for registering in the system's BTS. In this moment the
Unit sends a SMS message to the appeared identity and gives registration
rejection to it. Thus, the system is aimed to provide SMS service only in
the private area according to the following rules:
sending SMS only to the people who come to the working area;
your Public Number stays unknown for the operators of the system;
your personal data is not collected;
the system does not install anything on your handset.
The system may be also useful for government agencies and law
enforcement groups worldwide to ask eye-witnesses of various
extraordinary situations to call the police.

Main features of the Inpoint SMS System
full independence from the real GSM provider;
SMS messages are absolutely free for the sender as well as for the
subscriber;
the System sends SMS to ALL the handsets which are coming into its
working area with no limitations;
sends SMS to all phone types and different operators;
the operation range of the System is up to 1.5 km;
sends up to 1000 SMSIminute;
unlimited text size (amount of characters) gives a chance to send long
texts with detailed descriptions;
possibility to put any text in the "FROM" field;
very simple in use with easy interface.

...,

Equipme.
Technologies

\ private zone 3,

\,. ..vate zone 1,

-7
TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
Frequency Range
Power supply
GSM Base Unit:
- Stationary
- Portable
Personal computer
portable)

850,900,1800,1900 MHz

- 24V
- 12-16V
- 12-16V
capability
of
autonomous
operation up to 10 hours

Output power

0.1 -1OWatts

Connection via LAN or WLAN

Yes

Operation Range
Dimensions:
- Portable GSM Base Unit
- Stationary GSM Base Unit

50 - 1500 m

- 290x260~75mm
- 290x260~150mm

By utilizing our advertising system it is possible to achieve the
following objectives:

- create special outlook system that detects presence of new handsets in
the place of interest and sends advertisement messages to each of them;
increase the attractiveness of your business to the customers;

- keep interested parties updated about ongoing promotions, sweepstakes,
contests, discounts, schedule changes, etc.;
- SMS-broadcasting in creative combination with news, finances, sport
information, lottery results, and even horoscopes.
- the company of any size can transfer information about its special offers to
their existing and potential customers.
Now it is not necessary to be contacted individually to each potential
customer. Thus, it becomes possible to save money on printed products.

