Utimaco DRS™
Data Retention Suite
Automated Data Retention for Telecommunications Service Providers

DRS – w orl dw i de

2

Utimaco DRS™

Data Retention
Data Retention has become a buzzword in intense debates
between data protectors and law makers over the last few
years. It refers to the process of storing call detail records
and subscriber data for various telecommunication services
for a period of several months and years. Law enforcement
agencies and intelligence services regard the access to
retained telecom data as an important pillar of criminal
investigation and the prevention of terrorism. The common
objective is to use the data to identify and trace suspects,
uncover social networks among terrorists, or to collect
admissible evidence for court proceedings.
Many countries around the world have passed laws that
stipulate the authority of police and intelligence agencies
and the responsibility of service providers. In Europe, for
instance, the EU directive 2006/24/EC was introduced in
March 2006 as a response to the coordinated terror attacks
in Madrid 2004 and London 2005. The directive has led to
harmonized laws within EU member states that oblige telecom operators and Internet service providers to retain call
detail records and subscriber data for a period between six
to twenty-four months, and to respond to inquiries by law
enforcement agencies without undue delay.

For telecom operators and ISPs this means they need to
make an additional investment in support systems that
enable them to comply with these new laws. Clearly, it is
not sufficient to simply extend the retention period of billing records as the laws and regulations require additional
data to be stored, such as unsuccessful calls and e-mail
records. Depending on the size and type of operator there are
millions to billions of records to be stored every day and
operators must be prepared to respond to hundreds to
thousands of inquiries per day.
Utimaco has addressed these new needs and challenges
with the introduction of a purpose-built solution for telecom
data retention: the Utimaco DRS. This system is based on
the experience and technology of our world-leading lawful
interception system, the Utimaco LIMS, which is deployed
among telecom operators in more than sixty countries around
the world.

Challenges for Operators
Store millions to billions of records per day of data generated at various sources in the network
Handle hundreds to thousands of inquiries by law enforcement agencies per day
Respond without undue delay (near-real-time)
Maintain high security to protect data
Be prepared for changes in range of service and network infrastructures

3

Utimaco DRS™

Utimaco DRS™
A carrier-grade data retention solution
The Utimaco DRS (Data Retention Suite) has been designed
as a carrier-grade system to enable fast and secure access
to retained data by authorized agencies. It enables network
operators and Internet service providers to easily comply
with recent telecom regulations for data retention.

application. It also provides electronic interfaces to law
enforcement agencies via fax, e-mail, or IP interfaces
(ETSI RDHI). The backend components of the Utimaco
DRS include the DRS Backend Server, one or many DRS
Collection Devices, and a powerful data warehouse optimized for rapid search and massive data analysis. The DRS
Backend Server is the core of the entire system as it implements the business logic encapsulated in a well protected
server. The DRS Collection Devices provide the service- and
vendor-specific interfaces to the various network nodes
that generate CDR records and keep subscriber and
location data.

System architecture
The Data Retention Suite consists of a set of software
modules that run on broadly-available X64 servers with
Oracle Solaris OS. The frontend component, the DRS
Management Server, enables user-friendly access to all
administrator and operator functions via a secured web

Operation
& Administration

Law Enforcement
Agency

Utimaco Data Retention Suite

https

Frontend

DRS Management Server
Workflow Management

ETSI Interface

Web Server

Email Interface

System Monitor

Fax Interface

DRS Backend Server
Warrant, User, Note, Authority,
System Management

Data
Warehouse

Backend

Data Integration
Query
Processing

Telecom
Network

DRS Collection Devices

Figure 1: Utimaco DRS System Architecture

4

CD 2

CDR
Mediation
System

Router

...

CD x

Switch

HI-B

Handover
Interface
Data Analysis

System Monitor

CD 1

HI-A

Data Archive

Location
Server

Subscriber
Database

Utimaco DRS™

Key features
• Collects communications data (CDR, IPDR) and subscriber data from any telecommunications network
• Retains large amounts of data in a powerful and secure
data warehouse
• Provides very fast search and analytics in billions of
data records
• Automates request processing and delivers data to
authorized agencies by fax, e-mail, or secure IP interfaces

The Utimaco DRS addresses all aspects of telecom data
retention and has been designed to provide the following
benefits to network operators, service providers, and law
enforcement agencies:

Benefits
Cost-efficiency
The Utimaco DRS minimizes operational costs by
automating warrant management and electronic
delivery of search results.
Broadly-available servers deliver optimum priceperformance ratio for telecom operators of any
size.
Multi-tenancy support reduces capital expenses
for multi-provider and multi-country networks and
enables outsourced business models.
The state-of-the-art data warehouse architecture
compresses all retained data and thus minimizes
storage costs and enhances search performance.
One-stop shopping – Utimaco delivers a full turnkey solution with all required hardware, software
and services.
The Utimaco DRS has been designed for seamless
integration into existing networks, making use of
available CDR mediation systems and customer
databases.

Compliance
The Utimaco DRS is a purpose-built solution that
reduces the risk of non-compliance to data retention obligations.
Highest security standards guarantee data protection and prevent misuse by unauthorized persons.
Automated workflows help operators balance between data protection laws and obligations to support LEAs.

The Utimaco DRS enables operators to handle
thousands of requests per day and is fully compliant with the latest ETSI standards for retained data.

Reliability
The Utimaco DRS is a future-proof investment that
is continuously being improved in accordance with
the latest regulatory requirements.
The modular architecture of the Utimaco DRS’s
software and hardware system facilitates technology changes in the telecom network at predictable
costs.
The Utimaco DRS enables full retention of telephony, e-mail, Internet access, and subscriber data
and can be extended for other communication
services or by data from other sources, such as
financial transaction systems or toll systems.
Server redundancy, RAID storage, and process
monitoring are integral concepts to maximize
service availability and to prevent data loss.
The Utimaco DRS can scale with data volumes
from a few million to billions of data records and
customers can easily extend their installation as
capacity and performance needs grow.
Utimaco has over 16 years of experience in lawful
interception and has proven technologies that
have been developed for the Utimaco Lawful Interception Management System.

5

Utimaco DRS™

Seamless System Integration
Rather than replacing existing equipment, the Utimaco DRS
has been optimized for seamless integration into existing
OSS/BSS infrastructures, thereby reducing total cost of ownership. The solution supports different methods and data
formats to access CDRs and subscriber details at various
sources in the network.

Import to the data warehouse
CDRs generated by different networks nodes can be loaded
into the Utimaco DRS internal data warehouse at a very high
speed (up to 100,000 records per second, per server). The
system simultaneously supports multiple CDR sources for
tele-phony, messaging, e-mail, and Internet Access. Other
services can be added on request.
During the data acquisition process all CDRs are
filtered, integrated, and normalized to a uniform data format before they are stored in the encrypted database. The
organization of the data in the DRS data warehouse
differs significantly from common relational databases.
DRS arranges the data by column rather than by line,
which in effect means that all tables are automatically
indexed, but without the overhead (storage, management
and tuning) that is associated with traditional approaches
to indexing. Columnar storage also means that much more

effective compression algorithms can be applied to the
data so that storage requirements are reduced even further.
As a result of these and other features, query performance
will on average improve by several orders of magnitude
when compared to row-based database solutions.
The purpose-built data organization in the Utimaco DRS
further removes the need for a multi-tier archive with
different partitions for fast access and long-term storage.
With the DRS all data records can be kept in one archive
while providing average query times of just a few seconds
even for complex searches in billions of records.

Online access to databases
When certain data to be retained are already available in
databases or in information systems of the network operator,
and can be accessed via common application interfaces,
these data do not necessary need to be copied into the DRS
data warehouse. Instead the storage system can be configured for online access at query time. This approach saves
redundant data keeping and reduces costs.
Law enforcement agencies can connect to Utimaco DRS
systems in various ways depending on the technical capabilities and configurations and on national regulations.

DRS – w orl dw i de

6

Utimaco DRS™

There are handover interfaces for fax, e-mail, and for VPN
connections in accordance with the ETSI retained data
handover interface (ETSI RDHI).
The Utimaco DRS system can be flexibly configured for
different deployment options and business models. It can
be installed and operated by a service provider who exe-

Telecom Service
Provider

cutes the search requests on behalf of an authorized
law enforcement agency, or, alternatively it can be installed
at a trusted third party with direct IP connections to the
data sources. One DRS management system can administer and segregate many different networks to enable
managed service models, support MVNOs, and multinational DR solutions.

Law Enforcement
Agency

Utimaco Data Retention Suite
Warrant

Data
Collection
Function
Internal
Interfaces

Data Storage
Management
Function

Warrant
Management
Function

Report

Handover
Interface

Network Nodes

Data Analysis

Data Collection
& Storage

Request Management
& Reporting

Figure 2: Data Retention Functional Model

7

Utimaco DRS™

Optimizing Workflows

Figure 3: Screenshot DRS User Interface

Automation of workflows from the receipt of data requests
from law enforcement agencies to the delivery of reports
is an integral concept of the Utimaco DRS solution. The
system can receive requests and warrant documents either
by fax, e-mail, or ETSI RDHI (Retained Data Handover
Interface). An incoming request will appear as a new warrant in the inbox of the operator screen. Where possible,
all request details are imported in the warrant form automatically. After a short validation the database query can
be started with just a few mouse clicks. The results will be
available within seconds, ready for automatic or manual
delivery.
If warrants come in as a letter or fax, pre-defined report
forms assist operators to quickly translate the request into
executable database queries. The results can be exported in different formats like *.pdf or *.csv files. The query
and reporting system of the Utimaco DRS can be easily
extended to support country or customer specific
demands.

8

All internal workflows are protected by a number of state-ofthe-art security measures to assure compliance to privacy
laws by means of access control, encryption, integrity checks,
and full audit trails. The integrated user management
system allows for fine-grained definition of access rights
to various functions and data sources. All system data,
i.e. CDRs, subscriber data, configuration data, log files,
warrants and request details, are kept in encrypted databases. And, detailed logging of all user and system events
prevents misuse and enables security audits.

Utimaco DRS™

Utimaco DRS – Specifications
Features
Collects communications data (CDR, IPDR) and subscriber data from any telecommunications network
Retains large amounts of data in a powerful and secure
data warehouse
Provides very fast search and analytics in billions of
data records
Automates request processing and delivers data to
authorized agencies by fax, e-mail, or secure IP interfaces

Highlights
Seamless Integration
The Utimaco DRS has been designed for seamless
integration into existing multi-vendor and multi-service
networks. The solution can be customized easily to
interface with CDR/IPDR systems, log files, subscriber
databases, and other network nodes.
Multi-tenancy
One Utimaco DRS system can be used to administer
war-rants and search requests for multiple network
operators and service providers. The granular rights
management system of Utimaco DRS can be configured to securely segregate between networks, users,
and authorities and thus supports various business
models like MVNO models, managed services, or
cross-border service platforms.
High Performance & Capacity
The Utimaco DRS has been optimized for simultaneous
loading of massive data volumes and fast query processing. The system can ingest several billion data
records per day, supporting the transaction rates generated by large telecommunications networks with millions of subscribers. Average query results are returned
in seconds not minutes.
Strong Security
Comprehensive security features like role-based
access control, encryption, and integrity checks prevent
unauthorized access and manipulation of sensitive data
during storage and handover. Full audit trails are maintained for all system and user events to provide full
accountability for evidential quality.

Cost-efficiency
The Utimaco DRS runs on broadly available and costefficient X64 servers and uses standard SAS/SATA
disks arranged in RAID-5 arrays. This together with
excellent data compression rates keeps hardware expenses to the absolutely minimum.
Standards-based
The Utimaco DRS is fully compliant with latest ETSI requirements in support of the European Data Retention
Directive 2006/24/EC.

Hardware specifications
Oracle X64 servers
Various configuration options from single serverappliances to multi-server clusters
Integrated disk storage (up to 12TB)
External SAN from 6TB to 1000TB (RAID-1/5)
Oracle Solaris 10 Operating System
Sybase IQ data warehouse
CE marked, FCC compliant, ROHS

Services
PSTN telephony
Mobile telephony & data (GSM, UMTS, CDMA)
Mobile Messaging (SMS, MMS)
Internet Access (DSL, cable, Wimax, WLAN)
VoIP, Push-to-Talk
E-Mail, Webmail
Other services on request

Security
Granular user rights management
Remote access via https (password, certificate)
Detailed audit trails
Encrypted storage and handover
Hardened operating system

Performance
Loads up to 100,000 records per second (on one
server)
Average search performance: 5 sec per 1000 query
results

Norms and Standards
High-availability
Server redundancy, RAID-1/-5 data mirroring, and
real-time system monitoring are integral concepts of
the Utimaco DRS to satisfy the highest availability
demands and disaster resilience.

EU Directive 2006/EC/24
ETSI TS 102 656
ETSI TS 102 657

9

Utimaco DRS™

About Utimaco
For more than 25 years Utimaco has been a leading global
provider of data security solutions. Since 1 July 2009 Utimaco
Safeware AG has been part of the Sophos Group, a world
leader in IT security and data protection with headquarters
in Boston, US and Oxford, UK. While Utimaco data security
products are now distributed by Sophos, the business units
“Lawful Interception & Monitoring Solutions” and “Hardware
Security Module” form Utimaco’s operating businesses.
Utimaco currently employs a staff of 150+.
Since 1994 Utimaco has been providing lawful interception systems for mobile and fixed network operators and
Internet service providers. The Utimaco Data Retention
Suite was introduced in response to the EU directive 2006/
24/EC and at the request of telecom customers for integrated LI and DR solutions. With more than 150 installations
in 60 countries, Utimaco is a global supplier of leading-edge
technology in the LI and DR market.

A strong team
The Utimaco LIMS and the Utimaco DRS have been developed by a team of telecom professionals with more than 16
years of working experience in this field. At Utimaco, more
than 55% of our professionals are exclusively involved in
product development and customer service. The Utimaco
LIMS team is committed to ongoing investment in product
and service research and development to provide all of our
customers with the very best-of-breed solution.

10

… and a strong partner
We build relationships with our partners that go far beyond the normal vendor-client relationship and are based
on trust, honesty, reliability and openness. We provide
products, support, and training that contribute significantly
to the technical work and business prosperity of our partners and customers. We are responsive to the needs of
our customers in product design, technical support, and
customer service. We provide exceptional value and a
level of personalized service which set a new standard in
our industry, a standard with which our competitors must
measure themselves. These are the reasons why many
of the leading telecom infrastructure suppliers worldwide
rely on products and solutions developed by Utimaco
Safeware AG.

DRS – w orl dw i de

11

www.utimaco.com/drs
Utimaco Safeware AG
Germanusstraße 4
52080 Aachen
Germany
Phone +49 (0) 241-16 96-0
li-contact@utimaco.com

Utimaco Safeware Partner:

Copyright Information
Copyright © 1994-2010 – Utimaco Safeware AG - a member of the Sophos group, October 2010
Utimaco DRS™
Utimaco DRS is a trademark of Utimaco Safeware AG. All other named trademarks are trademarks of the particular copyright holder.
Specifications are subject to change without notice.

