While their goals may differ, intelligence analysts around the world face the same
challenges: How to examine large volumes of ever-changing data and find the most useful
information in time?
The Cogito Intelligence Platform is the Expert System suite that applies semantic analysis
to support analysts and knowledge workers in all phases of the intelligence cycle, enabling
the discovery of information patterns and connections with a variety of visualization
options.
By combining superior text analytics and domain ontology capabilities with the ability to
search and manage large quantities of data from documents, multimedia, audio streams,
web pages and social networks, the Cogito Intelligence Platform incorporates the best
software components for speech analysis, GEO mapping, deductive algorithms and
advanced visualization systems with a proven approach for intelligence data management
solutions you can depend on.
The Cogito Intelligence Platform is trusted by clients world wide to provide unparalleled
intelligence data management solutions that can be quickly modified and are customizable
to meet your intelligence needs.
Benefits:
Efficiently supports the
processes of Exploitation and
Evaluation of large quantities
of data;
Instruments offer flexibility
for customization to meet the
needs of Intelligence Analysts;
Easy integration with other,
specialized software modules,
designed by third parties;
Able to acquire data from the
most popular data and
multimedia sources (RSS, XML,
search engines, etc.) and from
the main types of databases;
The Cogito Intelligence Platform is not only an analysis engine, but a powerful
mix of tools that can be combined to give analysts the best technology to
analyze information. The results can also be displayed as a geographical map,
which can be used to interact with the data.

A suite of products designed
by Intelligence specialists for
Intelligence data analysis.

Key Features
The Cogito Intelligence Platform combines a powerful analysis engine with a rich mix of analytical tools
that give a strategic advantage to your intelligence efforts. It includes:
Semantic analysis modules for the automatic classification of multilingual text content;
Powerful analytical engine that automatically detects alerts and warnings;
Visualization tool for results, including a 'customized ranking' feature;
Instruments for interactive analysis and data correlation;
Entities and relations are automatically organized into a database;
Instruments to customize the semantic knowledge component and to define the rules for text mining
and classification;
Data acquisition from the main databases and the creation of case method analyses with deductive
algorithms and neural networks.

As part of the text analysis process, Cogito can also automatically
extract entities, events and other relevant concepts and automatically
generate an interactive graphic for visualizing and filtering results.

EXPERT SYSTEM
Expert System is the leading provider of semantic software that discovers,
classifies and interprets text information. All Expert System products, which
are based on the patent pending technology COGITO®, leverage the
company's expertise in the development of business solutions for the
primary markets (i.e. Automotive, Consumer Electronics, Oil & Gas, Media,
Mobile, etc.) and support the activities of Knowledge Management,
Customer Care and Intelligence. Worldwide customers include Eni Group,
Pirelli, ANSA, Telecom Italia, Microsoft, BNP Paribas, the Italian Ministry of
Defense and the Ministry of Interior Affairs.
www.expertsystem.net.

An example of automatic classification
(see the categories highlighted inside
the picture) based on a text taken
from the Al Jazeera web site.

www.osint.it
osint@osint.it

