1 place de la Porte de Versailles

75738 Paris Cedex 15
18thCkbber
19th Ckbber
20th October
21st October

trovscor

In today's cyber environmenttrovicor has used its
extensive knowledge of the telecommunication
and IT industry's trends and developments to
design Next Generation Monitoring Centers.
These are the cores that enable clients to
move to an intelligence platform concept
where masses of communication data,
gathered from multiple sources, forms the
basis for effective intelligence analyses of
information.
Today trovicor is uniquely positioned to
provide communication monitoring within any
network environment.
Its strength comes from the long-term
relationships that have been developed and
the ability to access any network.
trovicor is dedicated to a future of continued
investment in innovations as well as expansion
of its product portfolio.

Your Personal MC- 'Ling:

l
l

trovicor offices:

Munich phone:
Dubai phone:
Islamabad phone:
Kiev phone:
Kuala Lumpur phone:
Prague phone:

+49 89 20 80 35-500
+g71 4 4 3 9 3 4 70
+92 51 282 34 06
+38 044 490 1273
+603 2035 9648
+420603587327

The trovicor Monitoring Center systems completely
developed in-houseare a state-of-the-artsolution to
monitor, analyse and store all data acquired during
investigation activities, such as the interception of
communication data in fixed and mobile networks,
to Next Generation Networks and the Intemet.
The systems capture interactions, transactions
and surveillance from multiple sources, including
telephone, radio communication, email, web.
chat, social media, and more in order to provide a
framework for merging data into a single operational
view thus providing meaningful information to
decision makers about threats and targets.

I

1

trovicor Intelligence Solutions Portfolio:
Monitoring Centas. Analytic Tools P beyond

The solutions are characterised by a high level of
integration, modularity and scalability in order to
provide a flexible intelligence system able to fulfil1
the ETSl model recommendations as well as the
requests of specific local, regional and national
law enforcement and intelligence agencies around
the world.

trovscor
trovicor is an established leading supplier of
intelligence solutions for Law Enforcement
and Government Agencies, worldwide.
The company represents almost two decades
of industry experience in customer-centric
development of state-of-the-art monitoring
centers and intelligence tools for the security
market.
With in-depth knowledge of the public sector
requirements in enhancing safety and security
and 170 highly qualified experts, worldwide,
trovicor designs and manufactures many
and varied lawful interception solutions
for the most sophisticated applications in
Communication Surveillance.
Headquartered in Munich, Germany and with
affiliate offices in Europe, Middle East, AsiaPacific, trovicor services Law Enforcement
and Government Agencies in the security
sector with deployments in more than 100
countries.
trovicor
security
solutions
empower
governments to anticipate, prevent, manage
and investigate incidents, to recognise criminal
intent, to ensure security improvements and
to fight crime and terrorism proactively.

Design & manufacture of
Lawful Interception Solutions
for criminal investigation

These turn-key solutions are based on
trovicor's own innovative cores and
designed for integrating best-in-class third
party products providing the most flexible
platform for the apprehension of criminals.

Makina the world a safer place

