SSL INSPECTOR
TRANSPARENT
SSL PROXY
APPLIANCE

Netronome's SSL lnspector Appliance provides existing
security appliances used for intrusion detection and prevention (IDSIIPS), forensics, compliance and data loss with access
to the decrypted plaintext of SSL flows. This equips network
appliance manufacturers with a mechanism to provide their
security applications with visibility into both SSL and non-SSL
network traffic and increasetheir applications' performanceto
avoid becoming the cause of reduced network throughput.
This also allows end-users to add SSL inspection capabilitiesto
their network security architecture immediately to close the
security loophole that SSL creates.

Features and Benefits
The unique capabilities of the Netronome SSL lnspector remove risksarising from lackofvisibilityinto SSLtraffic while also
increasingthe performance of security and networkappliances.

;

Line-rate Network Performance:

- Non-SSL flows will be sent to the attached security

1

i
l

appliance(s1or cut-through in less than 40 microseconds,
minimizing delay for applications, such asVolF!
- Supports decryption of up to 2 Gbps of SSL traffic for a
variety of SSL versions and cipher suites.
Scalable Flow-basedProcessing: At up to 10 Gbps, the
SSL lnspector supports the analysis of up to 3,000,000
simultaneous TCP flows.
High Connection RateIFlowCount:The SSL Inspector
supports200,000 concurrently active SSLsessions that are
being inspected.The setup and teardown rate of 5,000 SSL
sessions per second is 1Ox higher than other solutions.
NetworkTransparency:Deploying the SSL Inspector is
transparent to end systems and to intermediatenetwork
elements and does not require network reconfiguration,
IP addressing or topology changes, or modification to client
IP and Web browser configurations..
W Application Preservation: Intercepted plaintext is delivered
to security appliances as a generated TCP stream with
the packet headers as they were received.This allows
applications and appliances, such as IDS, IPS, forensics and
data loss prevention, to expand their scope to provide
benetitsfor SSL-encryptedtraffic.

..
L

'InputAggregation:Allowsaggregationof traffic from
multiple network taps onto a single passive-tap segment
for inspection.
Output Mirroring: Allows the SSL lnspector to feed
traffic to up to two attached passive security appliances in
addition to the primary
appliance.
Commandlinetools
and remote management API in additionto Web user interface.
High Availability: Integratedfail-to-wirelfail-to-open
hardware and configurable link state monitoringand
mirroring for guaranteed network availabilityand network
security, including support for asymmetrically routed traffic
FlPS 140-2 Level 2 Certification:Versions of the product
that are certified to FlPS 140-2 Level 2 will be available.
Flexibili: Supports both passive and active appliances.
- In-lineand Tap modes of operation
- lnboundand outbound SSL inspection
SSL Policy Enforcement: Provides a single point to control
of
throughout the enterprise.
Web-based Management:The SSL Inspector is configured
and managed via an SSL-secured web-based graphical user
interface, keeping administration simple.
E-mail Alerting: Logs can be configuredto trigger alerts
that can be forwarded via email immediately or at intervals
to designated network administrators.
SSL Session 1dentification:The session log providesdetails
of all SSL flows, inspected or not, allowing suspicioustrends
or patterns of SSL use to be detected.

t

2

;r FloW.

For more informationaboutother Netronomeproducts,
pleasevisit netronomecom.

I

Performance
IUC

