Telecommunications
Services

FTS.

An overview of FTS products & services

Issue Number: 1.0
Document Ref: FTSIAT103
Date: 31103111

CONFIDENTIAL
6 2011 Forensic TelecommunicationsServices Ltd.

1.0

Company overview

2.0

SIM card forensics SIMiFORm

3.0

Mobile phone forensics HEX Raptore

4.0

Advanced mobile phone forensics Chip-off

5.0

Forensic acquisition for Apple iPhone iXAMW& iXAMiner

6.0

FTS Training services

7.0

lMSl / IMEl grabber & locator FTS Seeker

8.0

Building a digital forensics laboratory

9.0

GPS device forensics X-NAV

10.0

Specialist equipment

3 201 1 Forens~cTelecornmuntcaflons Sewlces Ltd

-

-

-

-

-

-

Page 2 of 14

CONFIDENTUU

Date: 31103111

C

1.0

Company overview

Forensic Telecommunications Services Ltd. (FTS) is a world leader in the advanced
extraction, analysis and presentation of data from mobile telephones, mobile networks and
all forms of computing and mobile communications technology.
FTS delivers specialist technical services and unique data extraction tools to a wide range of
security services, police forces, legal services and corporate clients. Through the provision of
highly specialised Software, hardware and training solutions the company also supports the
activities of law enforcement and internal security agencies all over the world.
Based in the UK with offices in Europe and the USA, FTS has provided advanced technical
services since 2000, developing the experience and technical expertise to enable the
delivery of Best Evidence as a standard. Building on this solid foundation, the business is
managed and staffed by qualified individuals from the telecommunications industry and by
experienced former police investigators.
An accredited IS0 9001:2008 company, FTS is committed to achieving the internationally
recognised IS0 standards relevant to the delivery of forensic services and software products,
including IS0 17025:2005 and I S 0 27001:2005. A strong emphasis is placed on best practice
and audited forensic processes to ensure the constant fidelity, integrity and credibility of all
FTS's data output and products.
Fundamental to FTS's ongoing success is a significant and continuing dedication to
independent research and development, specifically the advancement of
E-forensic extraction techniques, specialist telecoms products and the validation of digital
forensic processes. It is through this continued commitment to quality, improvement and
stability that FTS is assuring its long-term ability to deliver Best Evidence through Best
Practice, thereby guaranteeing Best Value.

Work in partnershipwith law enforcement agencies on MAJOR cases
International terrorism
International drug trafficking
Money laundering
Organized crime
Rape and child abuse
USA, UK, Canada, Spain, Germany, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Malaysia, Bali, etc.

O 201 1 Forensic Telecommunicat~ons
Serv~cesLtd.

Page 3 of 14

-

www.ForensicTS.com

CONFIDENTIAL

Date: 31/03/11

L

S I M card forensics - SIMiFORe
2.1

SIM reading and copying hardware overview
a. Support multiple SIM card formats i.e. GSM, iDEN, UMTS and CDMA etc.
b. Copy all accessible data leaving the original SIM card unchanged
c. Copy from an original SIM or custom copy SIM details from a library resource
d. Provide reusable SIM copy cards for creating custom SlMs
e. Support full Unicode and extended character sets
f. Obtain handset IMEl data, location information, voicemail data and other
information where possible

2.2

SIM reading and copying software overview
The SIM reading software will, where possible, be able to retrieve;
a. Phone book names and numbers
b. USlM phonebook data including email addresses, category and number types
and any additional names and numbers
c. Numbers, time and date of calls received, made and missed
d. Text messages sent, received and deleted that are stored on a SIM card
e. Produce customisable reports which can be outputted to XML
f. MD5# & SHAl# of the full read file proving fore~sicintegrity
g. Leave no trace on the original SIM card of investigation

201 1 Forenslc Teleronimun~cat~ons
Servlce5 Ltd

Page 4 of 14

3.0

Mobile phone forensics

3.1

- HEX Raptore

Mobile data extraction hardware ovenriew
The mobile handset raw and deleted data extraction hardware supports a wide
range of commonly available mobile phones such as Nokia, Sony Ericsson, Samsung,
Motorola, LG and others.
It includes the necessary hardware for connecting to such mobile phones and

extracting as much data as is possible including but not limited to;
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
g.
h.
i.

Phonebook and call registers
SMS text messages
Pictures, sounds and video
The SIM card serial number and lMSl of the SIM card's inserted into the phone
Other data like calendar entries, to-do lists, speed dials etc.
Security or handset lock code
Deleted data from all of the above where possible
Large number of models covered circa 360+
Specifically large number of Nokia models covered circa 100+

Mobile data interpretation software ovenriew
a. The mobile product includes decoding software for interpretation of the HEX
data retrieved from the handset.
b. The data retrieved is presented in a reporting format suitable for evidential use.
c. Multilingual decoding of text messages
d. Decodingof images, video and audio
e. Physical memory extraction
f. Extraction with no SIM present
g. Informationon last SIM used in the phone when SIM is not present
h. MD5# of binary files to ensure forensic integrity
i. Leaves no trace in phone of investigation

B 201 1 Forenslc TelecommunicationsServles Ltd

Page 5 of 14

Date: 31103111

COP#IDEHML

Advanced mobile phone forensics - Chip-off
When a mobile phone is purchased it usually comes in a shiny box complete with user
manuals, PC-sync software and peripherals such as headphones, screen cleaning cloth and
perhaps a case.
A mobile phone that has been part of a terrorist incident, or simply damaged by a criminal in
an attempt to destroy potential evidence detrimental to their freedom may arrive at a
laboratory in a very different condition!
Damage by fire, impact, water or even DNA analysis has, in the past, often meant the end of
any useful digital evidence being made available from the device.
There is however, a technique commonly referred to as 'CHIP-OFF' which means that such
damaged devices can still provide vital intelligence and evidence.
Specialist equipment can be used to remove the handset's memory chip which may then
require resoldering before a memory image can be taken. This read can then be run through
advanced software tools to decode the hexadecimal data and produce an evidential report.
Though easy to describe, this process can be time consuming and highly specialised
requiring skilled engineers to perform the task.

Useless for evidence?

Chip-off techniques mean 'not necessarily!'

I
Q 201 1 Forenslc Telecommun~cat~ons
Services Ltd

Page 6 of l 4

CcWENTW

www.Forens~cTS.corn

Date: 31103111

CONFIDENTIAL

5.0

-

Forensic Acquisition for Apple iPhonem and iPod Touchm iXAMm & iXAMiner

The Apple iPhonem offers an advanced multimedia experience that integrates cutting edge
phone, web and media functions in one device. Forensically secure data recovery from such
complex equipment requires a specialist solution.
iXAMm is able to provide comprehensive, non-invasive data recovery from both the original
and new 36 Apple iPhonem as well as iPod Touch". iXAM" is proven to deliver a range of
information potentially vital to law enforcement investigation, providing anything from a
stored contact or text message to an email, photograph or specific map location.
Our secure extraction technique creates a full forensic image of the device via USB
download, which can be retained for additional investigations in the future. A full evidential
report is easily produced along with an XML audit trail covering the data extraction process.

iXAMm
a

a
a
a
a

a

a

a
a

Address book (including multiple entry types i.e. home, mobile, work, webpage,
assigned ringtone etc.)
Call register
Incoming and outgoing call durations
SMS messages
E-mails (plain text) and E-mail accounts used
Extract and reproduce e-mail attachments
Calendar entries
Map locations (latitude, longitude and search terms)
ICCIDIIMSI of last SIM card
Speed dials, Tasks and Notes
User specified dictionary words
Live and deleted images (our image extraction will retrieve the time and date
that a picture was taken and, if available, the location it was taken at i.e. latitude
and longitude of the image)
Video footage and Audio clips
Content downloads
Deleted and historic Call Register entries

.3201 1 Forensic Telecomrnunicat~onsServlces Ltd

Page 7 of 14

CONFIDENTIAL

Date: 31/03/11

iXAM" users benefit from ongoing research and development as FTS continues to increase
the range of live and deleted data recoverable from the Apple iPhoneWand iPod Touch".
Regular updates are included with each seat licence.

In most cases iXAM" can recover the following information where available:
Live and deleted voicemail (potentiallyeverything received over the lifetime
of the handset)
lnternet bookmarks (including last visited date)
lnternet history
lnternet cookies (including websites visited and creation/expiry timestamps)
Active and historic viewed web pages
Wireless Network details (includingrouter IP/MAC/Subnet, domain name
and last connection time)
Bluetooth pairings (this includes device names, MAC addresses and PIN numbers for
pairing. Also shows historic entries)
Current time zone offset (not available on all firmware versions)
IMEI/Firmware version (only possible in certain cases)
Screen shots showing general use, function and data entry
For 36 iPhoneW,we can extract GPS location fixes. These include latitude, longitude,
altitude time and date. These are confirmed fixes - they prove that the device was
definitely in that location at that time.

iXAMinerWprovides automated decoding and reporting of data extracted by iXAM"

8 201 1 Forensic TelecommunicationsServices Ltd

Page 8 of 14

CONFIDENTIAL

Date: 31/03/11

FTS Training services
Investigator training services:
Telecoms lnvestigators Course
An intensive 3 day course, presented by accredited
police trainers and guest speakers, designed to give
officers and analysts working within law
enforcement an insight into forensic telecoms as
an investigative tool.
Students will learn about key areas of telecoms
investigation during a variety of presentations and
exercises, culminating in an interactive scenario.
The interactive nature of the course will enable
students to share their own expertise and experience with others and in combination with
the course subject matter they will be equipped with the knowledge to fulfil both the
administrative and investigative aspects of their role as telecoms investigators.

1
.

Crimes in Action Course
This 2 day course is a natural follow up to the Telecoms lnvestigators Course whereby staff
can expand their knowledge into the area of "live" telecoms data analysis. The course is
designed to give law enforcement officers an insight into the use of live telecoms data as a
dynamic investigative tool. Students will learn about key areas regarding the use of live
telecoms data during a variety of presentations and an interactive scenario.
The interactive nature of the course means that the students will utilise "live" telecoms data
as part of a kidnap investigation. The students will be able to share their own expertise and
experience with others. In combination with the course subject material, they will be
equipped with the knowledge and skills to better plot and use live telecoms data when
investigatingcrimes in action.
Due to the profile of FTS, we are able to ensure that all our students are given up to date
instruction on the latest techniques and methods surrounding telecoms evidence being used
in criminal investigations.
lnternet data Course
A 1day course facilitated by accredited Police trainers and guest speakers who are
specialists within their fields. The course is designed to give officers working within Law
Enforcement an insight to recognisethe potential sources of communications data held by
lnternet Service Providers, which may progress an investigation. Students will learn about
key areas regarding the use of internet data during a variety of presentations and an
interactive scenario.
The interactive nature of the course means that the students will utilise internet/comms
data as part of a missing person investigation. The students will be able to share their own
expertise and experience with others. In combination with the course subject material, they
will be equipped with the knowledge and skills to better use internet/comms data.
This course is a natural follow up to the three day Telecoms lnvestigators Course whereby
staff can expand their knowledge into the area of internetlcomms data.

O 201 1 Forensic Telecommunications Services Ltd.

Page 9 of 14

Date: 31103111

CONFIDENTIAL

Digital Forensic Investigation Courses
Mobile Phone Forensics training
Level 1 - beginners
Level 2 - intermediate
Level 3 - advanced
m
Training at our 'virtual digital laboratory'
facility in the South of England is given on a
1:l or 1:2 basis by Senior Forensic
Technicians.
m
Courses are bespoke created for the
students and last from 1week to 12 weeks.
Training includes;
o Understandingforensic analysis in
relation to mobile phone
equipment.
o Understandingthe digital forensics laboratory.
o Understandingprocedures, quality, handling techniques to be used.
o Understand Casework/ lnvestigation Management.
o Understandingimaging Processes
o Examine a variety of devices and extract digital evidence.
o Write witness statements
o Setup a forensic workstation and install forensic software tools.
o Understand the need for peer review and validation
m Visits from students from the UK or overseas can be fully provisioned (hotels,
transport, weekend activities etc).
SIM card forensics training

Course in advanced methods for data extraction from damaged SIM cards
Chip-off forensics training
Course in advanced data extraction method
for damaged mobile phone handsets as well
as models unsupported by generic forensic
tools.
Computer and Hi-Tec device forensics training
Three distinct areas covered at beginner /
intermediate / advanced levels;
Exhibit handling
Core Computer forensic recovery skills
m
Other disciplines & professional development (Internal & External training courses)
Course contents overview;
m
Understand forensic analysis in relation to computer equipment.
Understand the Forensic Telecoms laboratory.
Understandingprocedures, quality, handling techniques to be used.
Understand Casework/ lnvestigation Management.
Understandingimaging Processes
m
Examine Computers/Hard Drivesldata storage devices and extract digital evidence.
m
Write witness statements
m
Setup a forensic workstation and install forensic software tools.
m
Understand the need for peer review and validation
m
Visits from students from the UK or overseas can be fully provisioned (hotels, transport,
weekend activities etc).

3 201 1 Forens~cTelecommun~cat~ons
Servtces Lfd

Page 10 of 14

OOlFOerrW

www.ForensicTS.com

7.0

-

lMSl / IMEl Grabber & Locator FTS Seeker

People involved in unlawful activities frequently use mobile phones. The identities of these
phones are often unknown, for example a Pay As You Go phone purchased for cash. Not
being able to readily identify users and the phone identity through normal methods poses
significant problems for law enforcement agencies.
The FTS Seeker Handset Identifier/Locator provides an easily deployed, cost effective,
system for establishing the identity of mobile phones in a specific area. The unit can recover
both the handset identity (IMEI) and the SIM card identity (IMSI). These can subsequently be
used to check Billing Records from the Network Operator, as well as being used for
target location and to detect SIM card swapping.
Tools of this type are, of necessity, deployed in potentially hostile areas, very close to a
target. Covert operation is therefore of vital importance both to avoid detection by targets
and to protect the safety of the operator. This system has been specifically designed with
these requirements in mind, so that it may be easily operated and carried in a variety of
concealments, for example a shoulder bag or rucksack. It also uses a rugged form of
construction to withstand the rough treatment that is inevitable during operations of this
type. The device can be deployed both inside and outside of a vehicle.

Features:
Ultra compact and easily portable system.
Rugged construction in sealed casing.
Backpack / Shoulder Bag or brief case deployment.
Wireless user interface via PDA, Smart-Phone, Laptop or Netbook.
Operationally simple to use by non technical personnel.
Cost effective alternative to vehicle based systems.
Dual base stations for'high speed operation -scan two networks at once.
Embedded receiver for fast network survey.
Automatic scan of multiple Networks (two at a time).
Powerful built in database with removable media store.
Totally silent operation using all solid state electronics.
Built in software for lMSl catching identifyingwhich network or country lMSl is from.
Built in software for IMEl identity of handset make and model.
Self contained, operates from internal batteries.
Simple download of results to a laptop for detailed analysis.
GPS facility - coordinates stored of where unit is deployed.
White list' function, to ignore 'friendly' IMSI/IMEl1s.
User benefits:
Fast, efficient, cost effective lMSl grabbing.
Directional antennas focus target area.
User "Mark" facility for logging of visual information.
Simple target identity analysis using database.
Easily concealed for covert operation.
Supports target location.
Adjustable grabbing times.

3 201 1 Forensic Telecommunications Services Ltd

Page 11 of14

CONFIDENTIAL

Date: 31/03/11

Building a digital forensics laboratory
With digital forensics laboratories across the United Kingdom and overseas, FTS analyse
many tens of thousands of devices each year. Drawing on years of experience in providing
digital forensics services to law enforcement agencies globally puts FTS in the position to
offer an advisory or physical service to any agency wishing to build a forensics laboratory.
Advisory service
Physical supply and install of equipment
Laboratory management software systems
Procedures and specialist training
Ongoing support and training services

4 201 1 Forensfc Telecommunicallons Servlces Ltd

Page 12 of 14

CQHDemAL

9.0

Date: 31W11

-

GPS device forensics X-NAV
FTS X-NAV is able to extract and analyse raw data from
both portable and fixed satellite navigation systems. This
is achieved using FTS' dedicated extraction software
which, in many cases can produce highly detailed results
including raw co-ordinates accurate to within 15cm. The
range of data recoverable varies between devices but
can include journey logs, planned routes, vehicle speeds
at given times, and bearings (direction of travel).
All this information can be plotted using FT9 custom mapping solution and forms part of a
comprehensive post examination report produced to IS09001:2000 quality standards.

1b9

TomTom@(allcurrent models)
Recover home locations, favourites, recent destinations and stored routes, both live
(accessible by manual
examination) and historic (only accessible from memory analysis by X-NAV software).
Please note: These are not time and date stamped.

A manual examination will only retrieve a maximum of 24 recent destinations from the
device. With X-NAV software the recovery of considerably more is possible. The highest
number X-NAV has achieved is 1700 destinations. If the SatNav has been paired to a
Bluetooth enabled mobile phone; even without the recovery of that mobile, FTS can identify
the phone, extract its call registers (not including times and dates), phonebook, possibly text
messages with times and dates. X-NAV can also recover live and historic data including
phone name, model and Bluetooth address.
Garminm/ NavMan
Similar to TomTomQ.However, X-NAV can currently only extract 'live' and not deleted data.
Linked mobile phone information including core data and call registers can also be
confirmed.
Windows Mobilem Devices and Pocket PC PDAs
Most devices store raw data from the satellites so it is possible to plot where the device was
actually located.
Sometimes analysis identifies times and dates, enabling the recovery of overview maps and
other historic data. One such examination undertaken by X-NAV recovered 600 maps.
Please note: Some Windows MobileW/PDAdevices use TomTomQnavigation software. In
these cases X-NAV is able to retrieve the same level of GPS data as under TomTom'.

Standard forensic analysis of the PDA device itself will also reveal all available telephony
data (call registers, phonebook, speed dialling numbers, SMS and MMS messages), plus all
PDA data (appointments, tasks, notes, e-mail messages, media files and documents).

.32011 Forensic Telecommunications Services Ltd.

Page 13 of 14

CONFIDENTIAL

10.0

Date: 31/03/11

Specialist equipment
FTS maintain a portfolio of specialist intelligence products and services including;
Interception range ovewiew;

m

m

o

Analogue telephone interception

o

Analogue interception with call routing

o

SwitchILI software dial-up receiving

o

Digital trunk interception

o

GSM interception

o

PBX monitoring

o

Call playback

o

Modem decoding (dial-up internet)

o

Broadband interception

o

Fax processing

o

Mapping

Satellite phone interception;
o

Thuraya Tactical or Strategic monitoring systems

o

Iridium Monitoring & Decoding System IMDS - Tactical or Strategic systems

Ghost phones (Nokia and LG) & coded phones
Jammers
Directional microphone system
o

Features an array of high quality miniature microphones and state of the art
digital signal processing technology t o produce the most sophisticated
microphone of its type anywhere in the world

CDR collection and analysis system
The system is designed to be part of a National/Regional Monitoring System that is
fully capable of targeting TelecommunicationsTraftic and suspects in any particular
region -or to look for their electronic association of suspects in ANY area across the
nation and their supporters, funders or overseas associates.
GSM location and tracking system
o

o

The LTS provides the ability to locate GSM mobile devices on request and the ability
to perform
tracking of these devices over a period of time. The LTS is located within the
selected Host operatots network while the requests are managed and targets
monitored via the LTS system located in a secure HQ location.

1201 1 Forensic Telecommun~cat~ons
Servlces Lld

Page 14 of 14

