c<*-

J-AL ERT
- Law Enforcement Agencies
- Border Line Security
- Toll Authorities

- Insurance Companies
- VIP Protection Teams
- Security Solution Provide1
- and others

Nawirvairsbleas

'F

_1r

- -.

-"C
I

'

Get instant notification of signal jamming
The J-Alert is an RF signal analyzer that monitors GSM Radio Frequencies, GPS and LOJACK for
unlawful jamming by illegal devices. Monitor and follow criminals using their own jamming devices
in their attempt to elude law enforcement and defeat Toll Bridge systems.
Read more at WWW.~-alert.com

lvlISIION W I TH VISION

Discover Illegal Jamming

p
"
Key Applications

Recent years have seen a significant rise in the use and
availability of illegal jamming devices. These devices are
used to defeat surveillance and security equipment including
cellular devices ( a u d i o f i i ) , GPS and LOJACK tracking.
While jamming of signals is itself illegal in most countries,
identifying when a jammer is in use has always been diiult.
until now! - the J-ALERT makes jarnmer detection and
tracking easy, safe and cost effective.

t / Toll A
Law Enforc
J-ALERT will ae~ectjarnrners n use oy criminals trying to
circumvent GSM/GPS and LOJACK based tracking systems or people trying to defeat GSM/GPS based toll bridge
payment systems.

The J-ALERT is an RF signal analyzer that monitors Cellular
Radio Frequencies, GPS and LOJACK to determine if the
target is actively jamming these signals. When the J-ALERT
detects jamming m the cellular bands a conesponding LED
wiH light to indicate the FWeived Signal Strength (RSSI) of
the Jamrner and which band is beingjammed. When GPS L1
f r m and a cellular band or LOJACK is being jammed
a bar graph indcation of jammer received signal strength
(RSSI)from the jamrner is d i i y e d enabling tracking. If both
a cellular band and GPS L1 are beingjammed simultaneously
or if Lojack is being jammed a beep win sound every 3 sec. to
alert the operator a jarnmer is in use. The J-ALERT also has
a stereo jack on the back of the unit with both N/O and N/C
contacts for tnggenng an external device on alerts such as a
camera for taking pictures of license plates.

Jarnmers are being used by criminals in an increasing and
alarming high number to defeat and cheat not only commercial onboard navigation and recovery systems but also
Law Enforecement trackmg systems.
Each day of the year Toll Authorities and Road Plicing
Authorities are loosing millions of dollars h revenue as more
and more ordinary people are defeating Toll Bridge systems
by installing a simple 100 dollar GSM/GPS jammer in their
vehicle or cargo truck - a j a m m that is easity available on
the internet although it is illegal using such device h most
countries.
Frequently criminals transporting drugs and contraband
win operate jamrners to defeat law enforcement tracldng
efforts even if they only think they are being tracked by law
e n f o r m t . This is a great Interdiction Tod for officers to
form grounds to stop vehicles. (Probable Cause / Reasonable and Probable Grounds)

Specifications

Moddr rvdbbk for most counties
J-ALERT Rea Pdnel

m-aw
Ollt~rdUS8~

0 - 28 MDC using supplied adapt-

SEQ~
TOR
M I S S I O N W I TH VISION

SEQTOR ApS
Fiskerikajerne 16
DK-8500 Grenaa
Denmark
Phone 4 5 86 326 300
Mobile 4 5 20 819 819
Mobile 4 5 20 292 280
Fax +45 86 326 362

