Commercial in Confidence

--

Corporate Overview
"Y
",-

"

~.
4

Family of RF Receive
Research and develop
Product design
-5
s
--U*
'Proof of concept' p
Full BITE monitoring
Bespoke 'special
Prototype PCB an
Installed System P
Turnkey solutions
- Ily rna--ged sup
' a

I
I

il

Information
I'company
Communications Audit UK Limited (CommsAudit) is a British-owned electronics company with extensive

I

1

experience of specialist design, manufacturing and integration of high-performance receive radio
communications and telecommunications solutions, specialising in HFNHFIUHF receiving systems.

With more than twenty years experience meeting specialist customer specifications, CommsAudit has the
ability to successfully bring to market innovative solutions on time and within budget. All work is carried out
in the UK by a highly qualified and competent team of RF and software design engineers, production and
test staff. As a company CommsAudit can provide:
System delivery of complex and integrated RF receive technologies from small applications to rack
mounted systems including novel DF solutions
b Design of highly specialised RF circuitry through to final production delivery of completed systems
Design of analogue hardware operating from baseband through RF to microwave frequencies.
CommsAudit products cover the whole RF receive path from Masthead Amplifiers through Switches
and Multicouplers to Receivers, including all ancillaries such as power (phantom power), BITE. ATE
and Control.
b Bespoke digital signal processing solutions for IF signal processing, baseband demodulation and
smart antenna solutions.
Digital system design using FPGA's, DSP processors and general-purpose processors.
b Development of embedded control and monitoring systems for use in securlty sensitive applications.
h Custom tools for data displaylanalysis, remote system control, monitoring and fault diagnosis.
4 Manufacture of electronic communications products to meet exacting customer requirements.
i. An integrated PCB design, PCB manufacture and mechanical design services under one roof. This
integrated approach reduces costs, and shortens development time.
4 CommsAudit specialises in demanding projects that require fundamental research, innovative
problem solving and design from first principles. We have significant experience in working within
the Urgent Operational Requirement (UOR) framework and can deliver to very tight time-scales.
;
. CommsAudit operates a quallty management system that fully complies with BS EN IS0 9001:2008.

i.

Commercial in Confidence
2

Secure MobNe SIGINT Overview
CommsAudit can provide turnkey solutions that fully meet demanding customer specifications for
secure mobile SlGlNT capability. The solutions can be comprised of any or all of the following
components:
9 Remote control of SlGlNT capability at mobile locations
9 Multiple bearer WAN routing using approved encryption
h Static site secure mobile LAN providing in-theatre capability

I

>
>

Digital receiver with n-channel DF option
Combined multicouplers/switch matrices
B Multicouplers
9 Switch matrices (fixed form factor and
chassis based)

f

P Time and reference frequency
distribution systems
P Masthead amplifiers
P Pre-selectors
P Antenna sequencers

Our solutions serve the precise needs of global customers in specialist markets and are used in a wide range of electronics,
surveillance, and reconnaissance systems, and high performancecommercial communications equipment.

I

For more information, please visit www.comrnsaudit.com or contact our Business Development Manager.

t: +44 (0)1242 253131
f: +44 (0)1242 253031
e:info@commsaudit.com

