Utimaco LIMS™
Lawful Interception of Telecommunication Services

Benefits
Compliance
Provides surveillance of all common
telecommunication services in fixed
and mobile networks, incl. telephony,
fax, SMS, MMS, Push-to-Talk,
Internet, e-mail, VoIP, webmail,
instant messaging and others
Complies with regulatory requirements
in numerous countries worldwide
Conforms to international lawful
interception standards of ETSI, 3GPP,
ATIS/ANSI, CableLabs and others

Cost Efficiency

Lawful Interception of Telecommunication Services
Throughout the world providers of telecommunication services are required to support law enforcement
agencies in their fight against crime and terrorism. Network operators and telecommunication service
providers have to install interception facilities in their network to fulfil these obligations. The legal framework of lawful interception (LI) is defined by national laws and regulations, the technical details are defi-

Central management of all intercepts
even in heterogeneous networks
Modular, scalable architecture for
small to very large communication
networks
Smooth integration into available
networks

ned by a number of international technical standards.
Utimaco LIMS (Lawful Interception Management System) is a proven solution for network operators and
service providers to automate the administrative and operative tasks related to lawful interception. The
system is based on a central management platform for the surveillance of communication services and
implements electronic interfaces to various authorized law enforcement agencies and their monitoring
centers.
Utimaco LIMS offers the industry’s broadest range of supported network elements for active
interception as well as highspeed network probes for passive interception. This approach enables
lawful interception in virtually any fixed, mobile, and Internet service provider’s environment without
any negative impact on the performance and reliability of the network and revenue generating services.
Communication services supported include telephony, fax, SMS, MMS, e-mail, voicemail, VoIP, webmail
and instant messaging as well as other Internet services. While the system is designed for large-scale
networks with millions of subscribers, the LIMS suite easily scales to economically feasible solutions for
networks with only a few thousand users. The modular architecture of LIMS facilitates cost-effective extension
and adaptation to new technologies and regulatory requirements.
LIMS complies with international LI standards of ETSI, 3GPP, ATIS/ANSI and CableLabs and satisfies
the highest security requirements to protect the privacy of all associated data. Utimaco supports providers,
carriers, and LEAs in need of lawful interception solutions with consulting and technical support services,
and also provides managed service models together with qualified solution partners.

About Utimaco
For more than 25 years Utimaco is a leading global provider of data security solutions. Since 1994 Utimaco has been
providing lawful interception systems for mobile and fixed network operators and Internet service providers.
Utimaco Data Retention Suite was introduced in response to the EU directive 2006/24/EC and at the request of telecom
customers for integrated LI and DR solutions. With more than 160 installations in 60 countries, Utimaco is a leading
global supplier in the LI market.
While Utimaco data security products are now distributed by Sophos, the business units „Lawful Interception and
Monitoring Solutions“ and „Hardware Security Module“ form Utimaco’s operating businesses.

Reliability
Meets highest security demands
No negative impact on performance
or reliability of networks and services
Continuous enhancements support
the latest technologies and standards
Close cooperation with regulatory
authorities and standardization bodies
16 years of experience in lawful interception

Utimaco LIMS™
Networks & Services
GSM, GPRS, UMTS, CDMA,
CDMA2000, LTE
PSTN (Fixed Telephony)
xDSL, cable
WiMAX, WLAN
SMS, MMS, Voicemail
PoC (Push-to-Talk over Cellular)
Internet Access (IPv4 and IPv6)
VoIP (SIP, RTP, H.323, SCCP)
E-mail (POP3, SMTP, IMAP, webmail)
other IP-based services

Telecommunication Service Provider
Utimaco LIMS

Law Enforcement
Agency

TM

LI Handover
Interface

INI (Internal
Network Interface)
X1

HI1
HI2

Fixed Network

HI3
X2
X3

X1

Management Server

Mediation Device 1

Database

Mediation Device 2

Decoder SSL

Mediation Device 3

Gateway

.
.
.

High-Availability Module

Mediation Device n

Remote Provisioning Unit

Monitoring Center

X2
X3

Mobile Network

X1

Lawful Interception Standards
ETSI TS 101 671 (voice), TS 101 331
(generic), ES 201 158 (generic),
TS 102 232-1 to 102 232-6 (IP, E-Mail,
VoIP)
ANSI/ATIS: J-STD-025-B (Voice,
CDMA), T1.678 (VoIP), T1.IPNA,
T1.IAS (IP), T1.724 (UMTS), TIA-1072
(PoC)
3GPP: TS 33.106, TS 33.107,
TS 33.108 (UMTS)
PacketCable v1.5 (Cable)

Vendor Interfaces
Acme Packet, Arris, Bridgewater,
Broadsoft, Casa Systems, Cisco,
Ericsson, Huawei, Iptego, Juniper,
Motorola, Nokia Siemens Networks,
Nortel, Redback, Sitronics, Sonus,
Starent Networks, Sun, ThomsonCirpack, Unisys, Vocaltec, ZTE
and others

Performance
Maximum number of subscribers:
virtually unlimited, scalable configurations from 1,000 to several million
subscribers
Maximum number of interception
targets: scalable up to thousands of
parallel interception targets
Probe performance: up to 10 Gbps
per probe

ISP (e-mail, VoIP,...)

X2
X3

INI: Internal Network Interface
IRI: Interception Related Information
CC: Content of Communication

x1, x2, x3:

Internal Network Interfaces for LI Provisioning, IRI
and CC exchange
H1, H2, H3: Standard handover interface to the Law Enforcement
Agency for LI Provisioning, IRI and CC exchange

Key Features
Central administration of intercepts and target assignments
Active and passive interception of voice and data services
Collection and mediation of intercepted data from all network nodes
Standard compliant delivery of intercepted communications to the appropriate
law enforcement agency
Comprehensive user management with granular access rights
Multi-tenancy, segregates up to 64 different networks/providers
Authority management
Integrated system administration and alarm monitor
Security features
- RBAC (Role-based Access Control)
- Transparent separation of multiple authorities
- Full audit trails of all user and system events
- IPsec/SSH/TLS encryption
- Encrypted database and backups
- System monitor and alarms
- System redundancy
- Disaster recovery system
- Automatic consistency checks
- Secure remote access
Remote administration of other LI systems
Dynamic load-balancing
Integrated billing capabilities
Various language kits available

Network Interfaces
10/100/1000 Mb Ethernet,
10 Gb Ethernet, X.25, ISDN, E1/T1,
SDH/Sonet, ATM, SS7 interfaces

Copyright Information
Copyright © 1994-2011 – Utimaco Safeware AG - a member of the Sophos group, July 2011
Utimaco LIMS™
Utimaco LIMS is a trademark of Utimaco Safeware AG. All other named trademarks are trademarks of the particular copyright holder.
Specifications are subject to change without notice.

www.utimaco.com/lims
Utimaco Safeware AG
Germanusstraße 4
52080 Aachen
Germany
Phone +49 (0) 241-16 96-0
li-contact@utimaco.com

