Digital Barriers ( www.digitaIbarriers.com
Enterprise House, 1-2 Hatfields, London SE1 9PG, UK

Citywide Surveillance

t: t44 (0) 207 940 4740

Rapidly deployable, integrated urban surveillance systems

Dynamic urban environments require surveillance capabilities
that can monitor high-threat locations, quickly respond to major
incidents and provide effective oversight of public spaces
Digital Barriers offers a range of world-class citywide surveillance systems, providing
comprehensive coverage of urban environments, including readily deployable "eyes
on" awareness for tactical operations and incident response. We provide command
and control, sensors, fixed and wireless transmission and specialist enclosures to
enable flexible control of citywide surveillance and the deployment of capability
quickly into any urban location - using a range of wireless transmission formats.
Surveillance cmerage anywhere, anytime

Operational benefits

Fast moving operational situations require flexible and
reliable surveillance capabilities that can be deployed, and
redeployed, quickly at the point of need. Digital Barriers
develops specialist surveillance equipment to overcome
the operational restrictions and practical challenges often
associated with the rapid deployment of camera-based
surveillance. We offer units that can operate standalone,
or integrated with fixed infrastructure schemes, as well as
body-mount camera recording and transmission systems.

Citywide surveillance products and solutions from Digital
Barriers provide exceptional performance and benefits:

We also provide solutions that enhance command and
control, with comprehensive video management and
control room solutions, mobile control units, and flexible
and cost-effective wireless distribution of surveillance. In
addition, we can add intelligent video analytics for urban
surveillance applications, including left object detection.
With our extensive experience across multiple citywide
surveillance schemes, we also provide expert input on
urban surveillance strategy and training support.

Sectors and references

Digital Barriers Showcases I Citywide Surveillance
-

Instant coverage of incidents and urban spaces
Reliable and secure access t o live and recorded video
Cost-effective deployment and operation options
Purpose built equipment for 'real world' resilience

We support leading law enforcement organisations, civil
authorities and transport control agencies worldwide:
New York Police Department
UK Cities (including London, Birmingham, Glasgow)

Dubai
UK Highways Agency
O 2012 Digital Barriers plc. All rights reserved.

l

Citywide Surveillance I Products and Services from Digital Barriers

S

'

A. Re-deployable Urban Surveillance Systems (Stryker WRX and WMV surveillance units)
Rapidly deployable wireless (COFDM, Wi-Fi, 3G/GPRS, analogue, MESH, digital OFDM/wireless IP)
surveillance system (cameras, remotely accessible DVR recording; controllers).
Features and Benefits:

Installation within minutes, temporary or permanent use, wide
range of transmission formats (analogue line-of-sight, COFDM digital non
line-of-sight and 3G transmission), standalone/control room operation

Applications:

Street surveillance, vandalism/grafFiti/anti-social behaviour, vehicle
monitoring, event security, digital video recording, ANPR, video analysis

B. Mobile Wireless Surveillance Systems (TV1wireless video/audio streaming units)
Compact real-time wireless (GPRS/HSDPA/3G) video streaming with high-quality, low latency video
(even over limited/variable bandwidths as low as 9Kbps), including a ruggedised IP67 rated unit.
Features and Benefits:

Proprietary TV1 streaming technology for wireless video over very low
bandwidth networks, simultaneous remote viewing, low power with
sleep mode, remote retrieval of enhanced definition footage/stills

Applications:

Mobile surveillance units, incident response, traffic monitoring

C. Citywide Surveillance Infrastructure and Video Distribution

Video transmission over fixed networks (digital fibre, IPIEthernet) for reliable, secure distribution of
video citywide - plus wireless distribution of real-time video t o multiple viewers (including mobile).
Features and Benefits:

Multi-point analogue + IP/Ethernet + hybrid network, intelligent network
monitoring (security, maintenance), proprietary TV1 wireless streaming

Applications:

Citywide surveillance, urban networking

D. Command/Control and Video Management (video analytics and sensor fusion)
High-quality video management and integrated control room solutions (live monitoring, integration
with GIS systems, redundant network video recording) with intelligent video analytics based alerts.
Features and Benefits:

Integrated control room systems for enterprise scale surveillance and
security, intelligent network transmission for fixed video surveillance
(digital fibre, IPIEthernet and hybrid transmission network designs)
Video analysis for urban scene change detection e.g. abandoned
object (zone-based and background learning approaches), flow
monitoring and density alerting e.g. traffic lane monitoring

Applications:

Citywide surveillance, incident response, traffic management

