->>

CYBELS: A FULLY OPERATIONAL BOLUTION
TO CYBER SECURITY CHALLENOES

THALES

Cyber security issues are coming from digital information, worldwide networks and
applications interconnection as well as the speeding-up of data dissemination. Going
paperless and exchanges automation are radically changing the economic, social and
political environment of nations, making them more vulnerable. The world has become
more unpredictable and unstable, and new risks have emerged, in particular computer
attacks.

h)lrrrug&a cyber security operations centre

THALES

www.thalesgroup. corn

h,

>> THE

CYBELS, THALES CYEBER SECURITY SOLUTION
RISKS OF AN UNCERTAIN WORLD

Nowadays, information systems and the lnternet are playing such a prominent role in the life of government, business
and the public, that they are becoming vital to a country's economy and security. Accordingly cyberspace has, over the
years, become a key theatre of confrontation and conflict. New contexts in cyberspace have shown recently that it is
possible to disrupt the current stability. Therefore, i t is now necessary to establish new protection capabilities adapted to
new information and communication technologies.
The Quadrennial Defense Review 2 0 1 0 [QDR] describes the US strategy for upcoming years. It confirms the need to
protect computer networks. "In the 2 1 st century, modern armed forces simply cannot conduct effective high-tempo
operations without resilient, reliable information and communication networks and assured access t o cyberspace.
Department of Defense must actively defend its networks."
The World Economic Forum has estimated that there is a 1 0 2 0 % likelihood of a serious failure in critical information
infrastructures in the next ten years and that the potential costto the global economy would be in the regmn of US $250 biltions.
Outstanding facts of cyber warfare:
Estonia, May 2007: Total paralysis of the country's information systems.
Georgia, August 2008: Radical defacement of the government websites in preparation for the land invasion.
USA, December 2009: Hacking by Iraqi rebels of American UAV.

CYBELS is a comprehensive cyber security solution dealing with all issues of cyber security. Thales' offer consists
of equipments and resources allowing the watch, detection, analysis and combat all types of current and future
cyber attacks [such as virus, disinformation, denial-of-service, destabilisation, destruction, defacement,
information/data theft.. .l.
CYBELS is based on effective high-security tools built into a cyber security operation centre. CYBELS effectively
and efficiently organises and coordinates the overall security means of the maijor infrastructures that have t o
be protected in accordance with IS0 2 0 0 0 0 .
Expert teams are trained by Thales t o provide 2 4 / 7 real-time reaction towards security alerts received at the
cyber security centre.
CYBELS is amodular solution that can be adapted t o any particular needs and interfaced with existing systems.
The cyber security centre is a link in the international chain t o combat computer attacks.

Thales:
boasts recognised exprt$se in cyber security products and technologies
has a unique technology for the superuision of critical systems: 'Thales Hypmkm"
has experienced teams to deal with cyber security actions
0

Site 1

Site

sin-

;2008, operates a cyber security operations centre for critical infrastructures

E
Anticipation
Forensic

p--..-----.

THALES COMMITS TO:

>>

MGANS OF DEFENCE
Government systems are more and more dependent on information technologies therefore cyber attacks can cause
serious damages to states, such as propaganda, disinformation, destabilisation, rioting, public endangerment, destruction.
To fight cyber attacks initiated by States or terrorists targeting key infrastructures, it is becoming essential t o protect
critical applications using efficient detection and response capabilities.
In case of cyber attacks initiated by organised crime, state organizations have to apply measures to protect their information
assets in order to prevent the theft of strategic information, classified commercial or industrial information, or any form
of extortion.
Information systems security must become proactive to anticipate and detect attacks as rapidly as possible, thus delivering
in time and efficient operational responses.

Customizing the CYBELS solution according customers need
Deploying the CYBELS solution by Thales dedicated teams.
Providing long-term technical support.
':'

Customer training of operational monitoring, response and warning teams
Customer training of experts in IT network intrusion testing.
Customer training of experts in computer forensics [Computer Security Incident Response Team: CSIRTI.

