m telesoft

\ j TECHNOLOGIES

Packet
Monitoring
Solutions

A range of packet monitoring solutions benefiting from hardware

acceleration for commercial and homeland security. To monitor,
filter, groom and extract data from mixed traffic 10-100G Ethernet
and SDH/SONET core telecoms networks.

I KEY FEATURES
acket acceleration hardware
Pre-filtering engine reduce and load
balance data flows in DPI processing

Extracting specific data from increasingly complex, multi-traffic converged networks presents
scaleability, provisioning and performance challenges to intelligence gathering agencies.
Telesoft Technologies addresses these challenges with a family of 10G to 100G and SDH/SONET
monitoring, filtering and grooming products that are able to capture specific packet types
and data streams including T l / E l , Vole cellular data, e-mail and web traffic. Continuous
auto-discovery simplifies provisioning, whilst hardware acceleration and direct routing
of extracted traffic over LAN Ethernet reduce probe and application complexity.

Ii

!
acket Probe
Complete integrated solution for U
i
Cellular data and packet telephony support r

I1

Packet Extractor
-Access packet data over SDH/SONET or
Ethernet and pre-filter monitored traffic
Designed for use with Ethernet and
SDH/SONET (16, 106, 406 & 1006)
packet networks

II II

WI
I

Hardware acceleration by pre-filtering
allows full rate monitoring of lOOG
packet networks

The Packet Probe is a complete integrated solution that provides law enforcement and
intelligence agencies with real-time, classified content from 10 to 100Gb and SDH/SONET core
networks, delivered over an ETSl handover interface.
. Integrated complete solution for lawful interception
Monitors high-capacity Ethernet and SDH/SONET
Automatic survey and classification
The Packet Extractor provides system integrators with the means to massively reduce the
unwanted traffic routed to IP Probes, enabling efficient use of expensive IP Probe assets.
Highly scaleable through the use of pluggable interface modules
Extracted, classified content delivered over IP LAN
Continuous survey, independent of network re-provisioning

-

Independent from network pre-provisioning
through use of continuous survey

infrastructure for organizations developing deep packet inspection (DPI) solutions.
Onboard n-tuple filters (IP address, TCe UDP, ...)
Onboard libpcap BPF filter support
Onboard hardware based protocol parsing

-

Lawful intercept and data retention
Network survey and flow analysis
Traffic management and flow control
Network QoSassurance

l

II

1
i t Switched

.

Load distribution between servers

\\
Fixed/cellular network TDM Interception
Extraction and grooming of TDM data

Passive Probe

HINTON Packet Probe

Fraud and intrusion detection

Ask about our other monitoring products for:

-

MPAC-IP Monitoring Cards provide a specialist pre-filtering of 10Gb/s and SDH/SONES

Reduce cost, power and footprint of
monitoring solution

I

'\
\

LEMF

ml, nu, nu

4

3rd party probe

Packet mactor

packets

MPAC-lP packet
monitoring cards

Monitoring A b i interfaces for location data
Third party platform

HINTON Packet Probe
Complete solution for Law Enforcement
1 to lOOGb Ethernet SDH/Sonet with
Auto Discovery

Integrated compt& sdution far
lawful interception

The Packet Probe is a highly integrated complete solution that provides law enforcement
and government agencies with classified, real-time content from 1-100 Gigabit Ethernet
and SDH/SONET core networks. The probe uses auto discovery and deep packet inspection
to deliver metadata and targeted content to a collection function via a standard ETSl
handover interface.

Monitors high-capacity Ethernet/
SDH/SONET core networks
Dediited hardware accelemtes filtering
and extraction

Intelligent layer 2-4 pre-filtering is applied to multiple lGbE, lOGbE, ~ O G ~ E1 0* 0~G, b ~ " ~
and SDH/SONET streams by hardware acceleration technology, extracting specific transport
and data streams. Advanced deep packet inspection operates on layers 5-7 to identify content
for selected targets, based on filtering rules including SIP URI, telephone number, MSISDN,
IMSl and IMEl.

Automated survey and classification
2U CompactPC1 & Rackmount Server option

Monitors packet based core telecoms
networks for telephony and cellular data
lGbE, lOGbE, 406bF2and 100GbF2,
SDH/SONET
Powerful DPI processes mnitored traffic
Monitors and captures telephony and
cellular data:
- Votk SIP/RTP
- GPRS/HSDPA cdlular data (GTP v0
and vl)
- HRPD cellular data (GRE)
Generates mmmuniwtiom d-1
for data retention and OSS/VAS

Classified &

P Probe

I

manager

I

Classification

SUN^ &
discovery

records

Support for data Morifrom MPU
and UTP

Integrationto existing tdlection/mediatior
systems via standard rnl interfaces:
- ElS1 TS 102 232
- ETSI TS 133 108
- 3GPP TS 33.108

--

Modular construction ensures both scaleability and flexibility, with interface modules
* ~ 1 X 100Gb**.
available for 4 X lGb, l X lOGb, 4 X 1 0 ~ b "2~X 4 0 ~ b and

U

VotP

data

i n Rates,
No Loss

Deep park& inspection

E
l

*' CompactPCl model shown. Other hardware platforms are supported includ~ngRack Mount Server and BladecenterB.
*2Some configurations currently under development. Contact sales for availability.

filtered

C3 telesoft

TECHNOLOGIES

Packet Extractor
Pre-filter unwanted traffic
Reduce IP Probe complexity
1 to IOOGbE, SDH/SONET with
Auto Discovery

-

The Packet Extractor provides system integrators with the means to massively reduce
the unwanted traffic routed to IP Probes, enabling efficient use of expensive IP Probe
assets. Embedded filters extract specific streams (such as VC-X, ATM, PoS) and packet
types (UDP, TCP, Vole SMTP) from high-capacity telecommunications networks.

Highly scaleable through use of pluggable
interface modules
Extractsselected traffic streams from
mixed optical S. IP networks
Controlled by external DPI engine

Management and configuration are isolated from network re-provisioning by use of continuous
survey that scans multiple lGbE, lOGbE, 40GbE* and lOOGbE* and SDH/SONET (STM-x/OC-X)
m ~ x e dtraff~c.lndlv~dualextracted content is sw~tchedin real time to single traff~ctype output
streams, either on Ethernet LAN or optionally on H13 handover interface. Filtering and extraction
is controlled by a real time SNMP v3 control API.

Access IP data carried over SDH or SONET

Continuous survey supports any
container structure, independent
of network re-provisioning

ll

I

-

I

The Packet Extractor also reduces costs and complexity of lawful interception and SIGIN1

switching based on targetting data. Content is routed directly over an ElSl compliant H13
interface from the Packet Extractor to the LEMF, bypassing the IP Probe.

extracts specific traffic from
high-capacity connections lGbE, lOGbE,
40GbE" and 100GbE" and SDH/SONET

Processing
nodes

Reduces monitoring system capex
Continuous survey classifies data type:
Vole E-mail, IP,MPLS, TDM, PPP,VCAT etc

Switching b
management
API

<

Targetted
content
Filter

SIP, RTP

IP Probe

i
l0 to lOOGbE

D

data

MIr

Using the EXTRACTOR to simplify SlGlNT IP Probe

-

irates,

~OSS

Fig 2: Probe reduction to lower capex/opex

L

telesoft

\ j TECHNOLOGIES

Packet Acceleration
Hardware
I

KEY FEATURES

P I ACCELERATION

Powerful FPGA-based packet filtering

I
=

PCle form factor boards for integration
with standard servers
Multi-lane PCle host interface
Full-line rate monitoring, 10-100Gb/s
Ethernet and SDH/SONET
Zero loss of data

-

2-3 second data buffer at 100Gb/s
1st and 2nd stage packet filtering

I

Packet acceleration hardware enables
software developers to achieve high datarate (>lOGb/s) monitoring by pre-filtering
~llows
system integrators and agencies
to quickly integrate and use packet
filtering technology
User-controlledfilters recognize and trigger
on layer 2-4 protocols (MAC address, lW4,
lW6, port numbers, MPLS, TCP, UDP)
2nd stage filter allows interception of
communication from start of message,
not just from target match
PCle form factor fits standard servers

Packet Acceleration Hardware provides system integrators and government agencies
the specialist pre-filtering hardware they need to support the operation of deep
* ' SDH/SONET
packet inspection (DPI) engines on lOGbE, ~ o G ~ E * ' ~, O O G ~ E and
networks. Pre-filtering hardware reduces the amount of data flowing into the DPI
engine, reducing the complexity, power and footprint of downstream processing
and enabling higher network speeds (>lOGb/s) to be monitored.

The PCle form factor board can be deployed in servers or blade centers. Specifically designed
" ' SDH/SONET inputs. Powerful
for pre-filtering high-capacity pipes, it accepts 1 0 - 1 0 0 ~ b ~ and
FPGA-based packet acceleration allows filtering and load balancing based on layer 2-4 protocols
(data, network and transport layers). Configurable filtering removes large volumes of
unnecessary traffic (such as IPTV streams), reducing the burden on subsequent processing
engines carrying out DPI or other monitoring processes.
A buffer"' keeps 2-3 seconds of data, at 100Gbs aggregate throughput, allowing a two-stage
filter process. A 2nd stage filter allows interception of communication content from the beginning
of transfer not just from the point of target match, which may occur later.

1 *' Some configurations currently under development. Contact sales for availability.

Headquarters:
Telesoft Technologies Ltd
Observatory House
Blandford Dorset
DTll9LQ UK

Americas:

India:

Telesoft Technologies Inc
Suite 601
4340 Georgetown Square
Atlanta GA 30338 USA

Telesoft Technologies Ltd
(Branch Office) Building FC-24
Sector 16A Noida 201301
Uttar Pradesh India

no 454 6001
F. +I no 452 0130

T. +91 120 466 0300

E. salesusa@telesoft-technologies.com

E. salesindia@telesoft-technologies.com

T. +l

E +91 120 466 0301

Telemfl Technoioqus the Telesaft Techndogtes logo

~ n a n d ~ a r e ~
tradimark of T h l t Technoiogles Ltd i-its subsidiaries.
All olhw brand and product names may be trademark
of their mpeclive companies. Copyright 02011 by
lelesoft Technologies ~ t d AII
. rights resecved.

a

