superior

Pattern Discovery solutions
...with the Power to Predict and Prevent

VisuaLinks is written entirely in JavaTMand will run on any platform that supports Java 1.6.

.'

Visual Clarity Server Requirements

Microsoft@Windows@2000, 2003, 2008, XP, Vista, or Windows 7
LinuN
Sun@ SolarisTM
IBM@AK@
32 bit Operating System (minimum)
64 bit Operating System (recommended)
Single Pentium Xeon 2 GHz or higher (minimum)
Dual Pentium Core-Duo Xeon 2.66 GHz or higher (recommended)
2 GB RAM (> 1 million records 1 1-5 users)
4 GB RAM (1-5 million records 15-10 users)
8 GB RAM (5-10 million records 1 10-20 users)
32 GB RAM (10 million + records 120-40 users) A
64 GB RAM (10 million records 140 + users) A

Platform

Processor
Memory

A

Hard Ddve Space

In these large implementations, consider multiple server configurations.

- 750 MB of available space of "temp" space (on the drive where you are
installing from)
350 MB of available hard drive space for the Visual Clarity Server installation
400 MB of available hard drive space for the optional MySQLa database
server installation
Network Card (when supporting an Applet or Web Start Client)
Java Runtime Environment (JRE) 1.6.0, Update 7
Database drivers (ODBC, JDBC, or native Java drivers)
When supporting an Applet or Web Start Client:
- lnternet Information Services (IIS) 5.0, or
- Tomcat (included with the VisuaLinks soti'wam)

Network Support
Software

VSsuaLinks Client Requirements
Following are the system requirements for any machine running the VisuaLinks Client.
Microsoft@Windows@2000,2003,2008, XP,
Vista, or Windows 7
Linu*
Sun@ Salarism
IBM@AIX@
Pentium 411.5 GHz or higher (minimum)
Pentium Core-Duo 1.6 GHz or higher
(recommended)
512 MB RAM (minimum)
1 GB RAM (recommended)
150 MB of available hard drive

Network Card

Microsom Windows@2000,2003,2008, XP,
Vista, or Windows 7
LinuxO
Sun@ Solarism
IBM@AK@
Pentium 411.5 GHz or higher (minimum)
Pentium Core-Duo 1.6 GHz or higher
(recommended)
512 MB RAM (minimum)
1 GB RAM (recommended)
Available hard disk space, on each machine that
will run the VisuaLinks Client, to store data and
associated fdes
Network Card

-

Java Runtime Environment (JRE) 1.6.0, Update 7 Java Runtime Environment (JRE) 1.6.0, Update 7
.Net Framework 2.0 (on any machine that will use .Net Framework 2.0 (on any machine that will use
the i2-to-Visualinks Conversion tools)
the i2-to-Visualinks Conversion tools)
- or -lnternet Explorer 5.5 (or higher)
Minimum 1024 X 768 monitor resolution
Minimum 1024 X 768 monitor resolution
Visual Analytics Inc.
m.visualanalytics.com
(877) 407-4VAI
50 Citizens Way, Suite 202 Frederick, MD 21701
Copyighm May 2010 FW20, All rights resewed

+
VisuaLinksa is a data visualization and pattern
discovery tool that can simultaneously connect to
disparate relational databases.
VisuaLinks is designed to be scaleable and flexible
with low administrative cost. It can connect to any
relational schema through a server-side, XML-based
data view. The VisuaLinks architecture includesthree
layers - the Client Layer, the Server Layer, and the
Data Layer.

+

+

The Client Layer is the end-user visualization
component (the VisuaLinks Client). The
VisuaLinks Client is the user interface responsible
for the 3-D visual representation of data
relationships and patterns and is the means for
data extraction, analysis and output operations.
This GUI-based front-end is also used for system
administration, data modeling collaboration,
network analysis, rule-based operations and
many other user operations.

The Data Layer refers to the data accessed by
the Visual Clarity Server. This layer can be made
up of any number of relational databases or even
other servers that act as proxies to additional data
layers. Access to the Data Layer is tightly
controlled by the Visual Clarity Server security
settings. Data access is also limited by the data
modeling processwhich defines the values in your
database returnedto users through VisuaLinks
Client requests.

VisuaLinks' integrated service components,
including the DisambiguatoP, Matcher, Summary,
and Miner, provide an unparalleled set of capabilities
to support pattern detection and advanced data
analysis for a variety of applications. To date,
VisuaLinks has been used with a host of different
domains of data, such as network traffic, medical
patterns, pharmaceutical research, insurance fraud,
bank transactions, drug trafficking, criminal
investigations,terrorism, and many more.

The Server Layer (Visual Clarity Server) is
responsiblefor maintaining database connections,
maintaining user connections, maintaining
security profiles and storing the dynamicallylinked service components that represent the
business logic of the VisuaLinks application.
Each of these service components is loaded
during the Visual Clarity Server startup process
and accessed by users through requests from the
VisuaLinks Clients.

Visual Analytics Inc.
ww.visualanalytics.com
(877) 4074VAl
50 Citizens Way, Suite 202 Frederick, MD 21701
Copyright0 May 2010 FW20, All rights resewed

data found during queries.

Find all of an
object's direct and
indirect connections.

-

.

M

k

YC"ZX&%~gi;

"d

on a variety of maps.

Plot data along
date-based time lines.

Vlsual Analytics Inc.
www.visualanalytics.com
(877) 407-4VAl
50 Citizens Way, Suite 202 Frederick, MD 21701
CopyrightQ May 2010 FW20, All rights reserved

Integration
VisuaLinksa connects directly to your existing data sources
including any commercial relational database system and a
variety of file types. The Server component resides between
your data sources and your users. It handles all access
control, query requests and data exchanges between the
data sources and users.

Modeling
The VisuaLinks Model Wizard lets you integrate various
data sources into a single, consistent, graphical view of all
your data. The Modeler defines the various types of data
available, how they are connected, and their visual
representation. The built-in transformation system, the
DisambigutoP, helps to standardize and cleanse the data.

Data Extraction Services
The VisuaLinks services allow users to extract targeted
information from your data sources - rather than loading in
all available data and filtering down. VisuaLinks services
provide a variety of unique search algorithms that can find
data based on values, locations, connections and much
more. These services provide analysts a clear starting point
for analysis, bringing in additional information as required.

Link Analysis and Pattern Discovery
VisuaLinks provides an unparalleled set of analysis tools
designed to drill-down into your data, visually exposing and
displaying patterns, trends, unknown associations and
hidden networks in your data. Data is presented in an
illustration, in your data.

)

Presentation
VisuaLinks includes a wide variety of tools to assist users
in creating finished analysis products -from mapping and
annotationsto export and reporting capabilities.

disual Analytics Inc.
www.visualanaiytics.com (877) 407-4VAl
50 Citizens Way, Suite 202 Frederick, MD 21701
Copyright@ May 2010 FW20, All rights resewed

The Analysis Software to...

...Analyze Money Laundering Patterns
...Enhance Counterintelligence Capabilities
...Assist in Combating Terrorism
...Enable Actionable Intelligence
...Expose Financial Crime
VisuaLinkse is an advanced, visual data analysis
toolkit designed for use in virtually any
environment for any analytical need. VisuaLinks
integrates, standardizes, controls access to, and
enables analysis of your operational and
organizational information in a visual manner,
drawing connections between entities to expose
and identify patterns and trends in your data.
VisuaLinks presents data graphically "connecting the dots" by extracting and visually
displaying data to uncover patterns, associations,
networks, trends and anomalies in data.
VisuaLinks addresses the entire analytical
process -from access and integration to
presentation and
- providing a single and
complete solution to a broad range of data
analysis needs.
VisuaLinksprovides an advanced set of analysis
tools that allows you to:

+
+

Couple directly to existing database systems
without moving, transporting or copying data
Integrate multiple sources of data to create a
comprehensiveview of your data

Query and display large amounts of data with no
size limit
Use a number of query algorithms to expose
networks, patterns and trends in your data
Visually reveal direct and indirect linkages within
your data
Perform proactive and reactive analysis supporting
tactical and strategic operations
Provide advanced analytical functions ensuring
accurate pattern detection
Collaborate with peers, sharing data and related
analysis
Prepare and print final analysis presentations
Save and export data to a variety of formats
VisuaLinks is a platform-independent solution that
operates in a networked environment using a client
server architecture to allow large numbers of users to
analyze and collaborate on any type of information in
an endless number of applications.
Please contact our sales team at sales@.visualanalvtics.com with
any questions or other information requests.

D4quest an online demo at
- - mw.visua~ana~ytics.com

Visual Analytics Inc.
w.visualanalytics.wm
(877) 4074Vh1
50 Citizens Way, Suite 202 Frederick, MD 21701
Copyright0 May 2010 FW20. All rights reserved

-

I VISUALINKS
D ~ o ~ u DESCRIPTION
cT
I a t t e r n Discovery Solutions

Discover the SIMPLICITY and
POWER of VisuaLinks today!

-

An advanced analysis tool built
from the ground up to reveal links and
patterns as you have never seen them before.
I

See the connections and expose the patterns in your data!

I

=xpand the Possibilitie

gital Information Gabway

bines the power of the Digital Information Gatewaj
The Data Clari
( D I P ) search ana retrieval technology with the ground-breaking analysis capa
ties of VisuaLinksmto provide the most comprehensive solution for searching
analyzing, sharing and reporting on multiple data sources.

Superior Pattern Discovery Solutions"

...with the Power to Predict and Prevent

Visual Analytics Inc.
www.visualanalytics.com
(877) 407-4VAl
50 Citizens Way, Suite 202 Frederick, MD 21701
Copyright0 May 2010 FW20, All rights resewed

I

,J

I INTEGRATION

I PATTERN DISCOVERY

I COLLABORATION

VisuaLinks connects directly to your existing data sources,
including any commercial relational database system and a
variety of file types. VisuaLinks comes pre-configured to
connect to several popular database systems and supports
connections to virtually any commercially available
database system.

VisuaLinks is, at the core, a link analysis and pattern
discovery technology. Its purpose is to uncover and expose
patterns, trends and anomalies in data.

VisuaLinks was developed with the concepts of
information sharing and collaboration in mind. Knowing
that collaboration between groups, divisions, organizations
and agencies is the single best way to ensure that
information is current and accurate, Visual Analytics built
VisuaLinks as an analytical environment scalable and
flexible enough to enable inter- and intra-organizational
collaboration.

VisuaLinks includes a powerful modeling system that helps you
pull together data from different sources and create a single,
consistent representationof the data for your uses. The
modeling system provides a number of options that let you
integrate your data, includingthe DisambiguatoP, another*: ,<?F~
powerfulfeature of V i L i i , cwgned to zapply

k7

L

I

multitude of built in functions and supports custom-built
functions. Functions range from simple case conversions and
data type conversions to value validation and e n t i extraction.

're

:,-I

--

I

7 -

+

'

L,

Ine mwellng sysrem gives you a grear aeal or TI~XIDIII~~
1;1"^

-<,~<i

*

V&

L

'

-.?c*:

designing the data representation, including images used to
represent e n t i i types, relati~nshipline types and colors, data
labels, banners, and legendsto name just a few.

VisuaLinks includes a diverse set of tools that lay out
different types of data to help analysts visually identify and
recognize patterns in data, including grouping, association
weighting, social network analysis, and temporal layouts.
While not all layouts work well for all types of data, the
With its Server-to-Server capabilities, data and analysis
variety of layout techniques available in VisuaLinks can
storageldistributionfeatures and real-time collaboration
assist analysts in any data domain in uncovering previously
G
X,:
,
;
-F-(
w.rm;BM:
tools, VisuaLinks is specifically designed to not only m?:unknown or unseen patterns.m;cna,rm:
:,-,- -:
- ,
, .
4%
?support, but encourage, analytical teamwork.
Vimtinks hdps
~~valumesddatat(r
d targets of interest using finering, d.~-down and lint*%
I A PICTURE IS WORTH
my??
analysis tools. VisuaLinks can zero in on, or isolate, specific
.
, .
Below are some sample results of VisuaLinksJdata"
targets in the data, and then, step-by-step, build ,
.
.. *
ationships that show patterns of activities or behaviors. #.: "** visualization and analysis.
. --. , ..- ,, " ->Fy<%
pplying a combination of these tools and techniques
e ~ r a analysts
b
b wperfom
a d prm&*m( s t m ~ t c, . and taH~;ar)
e n ~ ~ in
s ak fraction &(he time a lilawal
* .
SUM-^^^^--^-__.-_-^^^_ . - li.C.I~
_

,

SEARCH AND RETRIEVAL
The VisuaLinks Services are data extraction routines tha
yiusers point and click to create a search while VisuaLinks
hutomatically generates highly-complex SQL queries to return
the informationto the user. These Services are generally the
starting point for any analysis.
Even the most powerful of the VisuaLinks Services is pointand-click driven. Each service is designed to hide and minimize
:PC+n+heend user.

'

A+.

I

h

7%ih

W -

Superior Pattern Discovery ~olution<

Experience the Most Powerful and Easy to Use
DATA SHARING Solution Available!

Digital
INFORMATION
GATEWAY

Create a secure and selective
information sharing network without
data conversions or secuflty concerns.
Search any amount of data with one simple search
in fractions of a second!

I

Er-md the Possibilities
"..5-"y-n<

...with VisuaLinks

.

.,-

-_L**

.

.A-

,L

-.%A

L

TheD& CIa"fy@suite combines thepower of the ~suaLinks@
analysis and paitemm
discovery technology with the unparalleledsearch and retrieval capabilities of D
Information Gateway ( D I P ) to provide the most comprehensivesolution availabi
, st :hing,analyzing, sharina and reporting on r -tip16 ta sources.
L

Superior Pattern Discovery Solutions"

...with the Power to Predict and Prevent

Visual Analytics Inc.
www.visualanalytics.com
(877) 4074VAI
50 Citizens Way, Suite 202 Frederick, MD 21701
Copyrighm May 2010 FW20. All rights resewed

I

L
.'=

The Advanced lnformation Sharing
and Retrieval Software to

...

V

...Investigate Offenses and Critical Incidents
...Expose and Attack Conspiracies
...Uncover Organized Crime Rings
...Examine Phone Tolls for Networks

(igitala-

INFORMATION

...Identify Gang, Group and Cell Actlvity

GATEWAY

(I

Digital lnformation Gateway (DIGaD)
is the industry's best
solution for FederatedSearch and lnformation Sharing in
Law Enforcement. DIG can securely connect information
among any number of organizations and handles an
extensive number of databases, intranet content, web
sites, office documents, and other types of files.
The DIG Virtual Data Warehouse creates a single point of
access to all of your information resources - databases, email archives, web sites, office documents and virtually any
other type of electronic file. The DIG Virtual Data
Warehouse provides integratedsecurity controls allowing
you to set access limits to protect sensitive data. Users
can search any and all data available with a single click.
The DIGVirtual Data Warehouse Server-to-Server
capability creates a secure and selective information
sharing network enabling organizations to share data with
other organizations. Data security and integrity are never
compromised as data is never moved or copied and
control over the data remains entirely with the original
owner.

The DIG Symphony Designer enables visualization of data
quality programs through a point-and-click designer that
builds on-the-fly transformations and generates results for
review prior to deployment. Use the DIG Symphony
Designer to build any number of transformations to fully
integrate your data sources and provide a single,
consistent view of all of your data.
The DIG suite of tools provides your organization with:
A single, integrated solution to managing data
availability and access
A single search and retrieval interface to all of your
data resources
Full control over data access permissions at the user
level
The ability to create common, searchable data types
across multiple, disparate databases
Completedata cleansing and transformation
functionality
Full, customizable event and transaction audit logging

+
+
+
+
+
+

Request an online demo at
~.visualanalytics.com

DIG Symphony manages key data processing operations
providing integrated data quality, standardization,
integration, parsing, enhancing, correcting, merging,
matching, purging and general cleansing functionality.

Visual Analytic~Inc.
www.visualanalytics.com
(877) 407-4VAI
50 Citizens Way, Suite 202 Frederick, MD 21701
g

CopyrighKO May 2010 FW20. All rights reserved

Integration
Digital InformationGateway (DIG") connects directly to your
existing data sources, including any commercial relational
database system, e-mail archives, web sites, and over 60 types
of files. The DIG Server resides betweenyour data sources and
your users. It handles all access control, query requests and
data exchanges between the data sources and users.

Transformations
The integrated DIG Symphony technology is a critical part of
data integration. Symphony provides a wide variety of data
cleansing and standardizationtools that help to create a
single, consistent view of your data - regardless of the type of
database system from which it was retrieved.

Search and Retrieval
DIG can search specific data sources, all data sources
available, and even data sources shared by other agencies or
organizations -all at once, in fractions of a second.
DIG search results can be reviewed and exported to a variety
of formats.

Notifications
DIG Alerts let users define criteria they want to monitor for in
your data sources. Whenever data matchingthe criteria is
added to a monitored data source, DIG sends an automated
notification to one or more users.

Virtual Data Warehousing
The DIG Server-to-Server capability creates a secure and
selective information sharing network- without the costs and
security issues surrounding traditional data warehouses. Data
is never moved or copied, and control over the data remains
entirely with the original owner.

Visual Analytics Inc.
www.visualanalytics.com
(877) 4074VAI
50 Citizens Way, Suite 202 Frederick, MD 21701
CopyrightcD May 2010 FW20, All rights resewed

(NFORM A T I O N
GATEWAY
d

DIG searches all of your
sources for matching
documents, web sites,
and database records.

:.

".-. -..
4.2

'.A(__
..-m

results returned from
database sources.

Review text results ..,,,, hit scoiing and
original document viewing capabilities.

Vlsual Analytics Inc.
www.visualanalytics.com
(877) 407-4VAI
50 Citizens Way, Suite 202 Frederick, M D 21 701
CopyrightCD May 2010 FW20, All rights reserved

Digital
INFORMATION
GATEWAY

DIG employs a scaleable flexible architecture
coupled with low administrative cost.

Digital InformationGateway (DIGa) is a data retrieval and
manipulationtool that searches multiple information repositories - including any combination of databases, web sites,
e-mails and user documents - simultaneously.
DIG employs a scaleable flexible arahitecturecoupled with
low administrative cost. DIG requires no customizationto
connect to most data sources and uses standardscompliant ODBC or native drivers.
The DIG architecture is broken into four distinct
parts - the Presentation Layer, the Business Layer,
the Data Access Layer, and the Data Layer.

+

+

+
+

All communication in DIG is performed using XML and
SOAP. SOAP allows DIG to communicate in the same
fashion that a web browser communicates with a web
server. This enables DIG to traverse firewalls via simple
HTTP requests with no modificationsto firewalls that
already allow HTTP requests.
DIG, like other Visual Analytics products, is built on openarchitectures and standards, like XML, making it easy to
adapt, extend or enhance to meet the specific needs of
virtually any application.

The Presentation Layer is the DIG User software. This
software is the user interfacewhere all user interaction
takes place. This software assists users in building
and executing searches, communicateswith the
Business Layer to request and retrieve information, and
presents search results to the user for further analysis
and data manipulation.
The Business Layer consists of multiple services
responsible for coordinating and handling requests
from the Presentation Layer. These services include,
but are not limited to, data filtering and manipulation,
persistence, grouping and output. This layer handles
all requests and returns from the DataAccess Layer
as well as the core business logic.
The DataAccess Layer is made up of several stateless
services that are responsiblefor carrying out the
requests of the Business Layer. Connections to all
information repositories are handled at this layer.
The Data Layer consists of informationrepositories.
This can be any combination of databases, user
documents, andlor web sites.

Vlsual Analytlcs Inc.
www.visualanalytics.com
(877) 4074VAI
50 Citizens Way, Suite 202 Frederick, MD 21701
Copyright0 May 2010 FW20. All rights resewed

The DIG Server software must be installed on a server machine.
Operating System

Processor
Memory
Hard Drive Space

Software

Windows 2000 Server
Windows 2003 Server
Windows 2008 Server
Dual Pentium 4 Xeon 2 GHz or higher
4 GB RAM (minimum)
32 GB RAM (recommended)
175 MB for software installation
Additional space for indexes
(total of 15 GB available recommended)
lnternet Information Services (IIS) installed and started automatically
.NET Framework 2.0 (automatically installed with the DIG Server)
ASP.NET
SQL Server 2000 or SQL Server 2005 or SQL Server 2008

Operating System

Processor
Memory
Software

Windows 98, 2* Edition
Windows NT
Windows 2000
Windows XP
Windows Vista
Pentium 1111800 MHz (minimum)
Pentium 411 GHz or higher (recommended)
256 RAM (minimum)
1 GB RAM (recommended)
.NET Framework 2.0
lnternet Explorer 6.0.1 or higher

SOAP
Digital lnformation Gateway (DIGm) supports the Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP)
providing a built-in solution to the issues surrounding communication over firewalls. SOAP
support is includedwith the standard DIG installation.
508 Compliance
Visual Analytics strives to be in compliance with section 508 of the RehabilitationAct of
1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 794d). The Visual Analytics web site provides details on our
508 compliance for all of our products.

Add value to your existing data suite using the VAI Data Center source data. When querying or
local information; why not check important referential data simultaneously?
by DIG servers and enables y
your own. Content is hosted,
access to the most relevant information.

atdmanih, lly,'$&itinue to form key industry partnerships to bring the most valuable sources of
iformation 6 h r Federated Search andAnalytical environment.

Visual Analytles Inc.
www.visua1analytics.com
(877) 407-4VAI
50 Citizens Way, Suite 202 Frederick, MD 21701
Copyrighg May 2010 FW20, All rights resewed

Searching for, and securely sharing, your data, in multiple formats,
across platForms and between organizations and business
partners, is a difficult proposition. Data sharing has become a highpriority in many market sectors, but there are numerous practical
challenges to delivering on this difficult challenge: disparate
database systems with differing schemas, structured (tabular
database information) versus unstructured data (Microsoft Word
documents, PDF files, web pages, etc.), varying security
requirements, and performance and cost considerations.
Visual Analytics' Digital Information Gateway (DIG) solves this
problem. DIG provides the means bv which vou can search anu

I HIGH DATA VOLUMES

SHARING DATA SOLVE1

I HOMOGENIZED DA"
DIG provides a layer of "abstraction" for each data source
under its control, "mapping" a standard schema to the columns
of each shared source. When a user receives query results, all
columns returned adhere to this schema, regardless of the
name given to any column in the source database. Differences
between sources are hidden from the end-user, giving the enduser the illusion of querying a single, vast, database.

INFORMATION
GATEWAY

l INSTANT SOA
What's Instant SOA? It's the instant transformation bi your data
into a Services Oriented Architecture that can be leveraged by
anyone with access to the DIG network. DIG exposes shared
data sources as Web Services, allowing any web service client
to access the shared data. The DIG SOA framework provides a
robust
set d W& Sew.b
pm&
-. aPIs
. - $M
- - * - existing cliant
-applications to easily use your data.
W

3.
..

How does DIG solve this challenge?

FDigital
-

DIG promotes a higher degree of data consumption when
compared with standard web sites or Portals. This is due to
the automation, and multi-faceted nature, of the federated
search. Giving users access to more of your data as well as
the data of other agencies, can boost the value of your data to
that user.

1

: SEARC

%

.

-

-

-':DIG is designed to access any type of data, and provides a
~

.
X

-.--

.
.

.

-

,.

=
X
:
.
;

~

readymade set of web servi&s-that are generic and that put
you in control. This is made possible by a modeling framewo
that allows each data sour& to be mapped to the standard
schema. Once your data is controlled by a DIG server, that data
can be exposed as a web service - without any additional
programming.

Suite 202 , Frederick, M
0 Toll Free 1-877-407-Vq
www.visualanalytics.com

$;g!

.

.

..=

I

i

l

ui
Q)

Q)m
E3
P
m r g g
.iij S

0

sszz

->.G

Q)

r

3

8 2 9 s
.-S
m o b
Esg5
3

2.

U

args

.%g;%

Q : % m m L
LU o ' t u 3

3 2 S S 0

a g.igz

g

943:
= P

m $..S

0
4

.==*c

=a.=
3 CI)
0 - m
u u c Q ) m
2 .G 5 .S
- m
$ ' =
S E
o c
= cx
%Q)

;

-at

i.s
- Q )

,

* --

.+

-

s s-zm mrn 2E

Q)

CI)

g

E
OS='+
c
Q) g 5 p
3
.-€ - S @
L Q)

=.=
-330
E EJqg;,
Q)

gm

Q)

.-

PU)

L

Bmggir
Q)

Q)

gg+z

O h8
5 ~ 5

ga -i €s. EE: .

a pt gLg C
o
sd
c # p p 8

" J m = ga EnL=u

&

g

89-8
=.=g3 5

c c.6u >

V ) c r r c u

3.-

n v.2 x ' z = f

Q

Y,

. + e r n a g

r n z - t g

7-

2

.€S.$
0=*m

$.:g%$

%sagg,e!
nlJm--=
e r n@>..'g;

'P-

c==

0

Q)-

->c)!-.8

m2Q)m

.a, * m
3 0l?

L

Qu) m 8 c
g
" 0&2 =mQ.E
c
Q);'

rn = E m
g m g i 5

zip

058.

> . ~ m g s ~
m8
Q
B C r , $ 28-1
m Q ) r ~ i

$?z
P

cQ)Q)sQ)=
g 2a!Pstm,
L > Q ) O ~

.Eu-€

U

0

lt.-+u=~
+&
m
na,
2g
Q
a,*uC-If=

8 = Q ) . wu , ms Qr) QL) oL ~
U

Q)-

53

L + ! - Q ) Q ) ~

Q)'=

3c 0'-

c

ago

Q)
U) = - a

VAI Data Center

Purchase Information

-

Access to vital data formatted for you and
ready to use!

VAI offers Tiered pricing based on the
number of queries performed each month.

The VAI Data Center uses DIG technology to
make content available in a convenient and
standardized format that supports real-time
queries. We make it easy to find the data
you are looking for using DIG'Sbuilt-in
capabilitiesfor Full-Text Searching, Batch
Queries, and Alerting on new content that
matches what you're looking for.
. .

.

I

9

-

I

Cost per
Query

..

..

~ ~ s s ~ o n - C rDam,
~ r ~ cAta\our
~ tingertips

I

fast, secure, convenient, standardized

l
-1

. .

,

t

Monthly
Subscription

,

.

The following methods of access are
S U nD D O ~ ~ ~ ~1: -

Queries

.'

bit3 Server to Server
A "data1ayer"connectionfromyour DlGSe~er(s)
to
our DlGServe~s
at the VAIData Cente!:, . .., .. . -.

r

8

'VAI offers a 70% grace on monthly query
volume. Queries in excess of the grace amount
will be billed at the Cost per Query for that Tier.

to DIG ~erv&
I visua~inks
Have a VisuaLinksServer, but not a OlGServer?

Connect to our Data Center using the VisuaLinks
to DIG Connector.

" 3 Smart C

I

~t

the DIG Smart Client to query any sources .
. . , -.-. .- . ..
available to youraccount. ': ' -'-,
.
. . .. . . ..,,
.- . . . . . .
.
,
. .
..n7b Services
:. '
. '
,

. l b . -

.>

v

.,,

>

..

jnect your custom application, web site,
portal, or commercialsofrware directly to any
data sources available to your account. *Source
code (C#)and documentation are available.

I

Visual Analytics offers our Data Center sources
in a variety of packages to suit your
organization's needs. Contact our sales team
.
for more details.
'.* - . . . '
. ., ,..-:. - .. ., ..

.

,

'

,

.. .

Email: sales@visualanalytics.com
Phone: 1-877407-4VAI (4824)
.

-*-++

.

I

.

'
l

. .'

.

..

.

.

'

.. '

1

1 VAI provides discountsfor Multiple Packages.

,
,directly to o,, Jata Center web site and use

II

JI Packages require an annual commitment
with either quarterly or annual billing. Any
overage adjustmentsare billed on next
billing cycle.

VISUAL ANALYTIC$ IN[
5 0 Cit~zensWay, Suite 202
Frederick, MD 21701

240-215-6600 1-877-407-4824
http://www.visualanalytics.com

r' ' '

U.S. Sex Offenders -ackaa

m
3%

l

"hi,..

The U.S. Sex Offenders Package provides
access to over 500,000 sex offender records in
all 50 states. Details include First and Last
Name, Photo IMug Shot, Aliases, Addresses,
Charge Information, Level of Offense, Links to
Online Maps, and is fully Geo-Coded with
Latitude l Longitude.
This data is updated daily and provides fast,
unified access to this important resource.
Interested parties may include: Law
Enforcement, Schools, Employers, Landlords,
and Neighborhood Watch groups.
Provided in partnership with Family Watchdo@
(WWW. familywatchdog.us).

JusticeXChange

Package

1
-

I W r\~~kAnalyzer
Package combines several
High-Risk Watch Lists, including the Nomino Data
RiskFeedTMproducts, into one point of access.
This package will help your organization identify
key individuals and groups that are targeted by the
U.S. Government for Bank, Fraud, or Terrorism
reasons. Knowing that you are dealing with such
people is key to making the right decision in any
situation (employment, arrest, doing business
with, positions of trust, etc.).
'
I

Data sources include: OFAC, FBI, HMT, OSFI,
Interpol, FATF, EU, WB, UN, BIS, and DTC.
This data is updated weekly and provides a key
reference point to help combat risk in almost any
industry.

This data is updated every few minutes and
provides invaluable, unified access for Law
Enforcement.

The JusiceXChange Package indudes infwmation
about incamrated individuals throughout the United
States. Details indude Custody Status, O1Jlender
Home Address and Phone, Offender Releam>/
Transfer 1Escq~Statm,and Phota lMug W
r

Provided in partnership with ApprisSB
(www.appriss. com).
*This package is priced using the Appriss model. VAI
pricing models do not apply.

Social Security Death Master Index

&,

The MethCheck Package contains
Pseudoephedrine registered sales data from major
pharmacies around the United States. These sales
are legally controlled and logged since retail
Pseudoephedrine is a primary ingredient used by
thousands of illicit Methamphetamine Labs.
Access to this data lets you track individuals seeking
to circumvent the legal buying limits by "smurting"
from store to store. Individuals use this technique to
accumulate an illegal amount of cold medicines,
often used to create variations of 'meth."

Provided in partnership with NominoDataTM
(www.nominodata.com).

pack-^

MethCheck Package

'W

Access to this inform
offenders, monitorin
and tracking down dead-beat parents.
This data is updated daily and providw
unified acass f$r Law Enforcement

'

fslla

P ~ V W in partners7,ip with ~ p p r i s s(w.appriss.
~

k - *.-G&

"This package is priced using the Appriss model.
models do not apply.

ackage provides access to
ly 82 million records on decea
individuals. details include Social Security
Number, First and Last Name, Birth Date, and
Death Date.
This data is updated monthly%
n many areas?Activities
men4 Employment
y LaurWig C?onpliana

*MC

attern Discover)

'mfm

The Data Clarify environment allows users to
search all database servers, documents, web pages.

INFORMATION
GATEWAY

The Data Clarity Suite combines the power of
VisuaLinksBand Digital lnformation Gateway (DIGaD)
into
an unmatched analytical environment.

The Data Clarity environment provides the unparalleled
power to discover patterns across all pertinent data,
structured and unstructured, using our seamlessly
interconnected Data Clarity Network. This network forms
a virtual data warehouse without the cost and, more
importantly, without the issues surrounding data ownership - data stays at the owner's location and the owner
controls data access.
Users of any of the validated Data Clarity sites can then
search and mine all the information available within the
Data Clarity Network of servers. This allows users of the
environment to perform any operation across local and
remote data of all data formats.

The Data Clarity environment allows users to search all
database servers, documents, web pages, and e-mail
servers to perform data mining techniques, clustering,
timeline analysis, social network analysis, entity extraction
and classification, ad hoc reporting, and data sharing
across many disparate organizations.
Data Clarity is the most affordable and robust information
sharing and pattern discovery solution available.

Please contact our sales team for more information
at 1-877-407-4VAl(4824) or email us at
about the benefits of the
Data Clarity Suite.

v

Pattern Discovery and lnformation Sharing Soitware
Visual Analytics Inc. www.visualanalytics.com (877) 4074VAI
50 Citizens Way, Suite 202 Frederick. MD 21701
Copyright@ May 2010 FW20. All rights resewed

The Power of
tnformation Sharing
Through
Collaborative Analfljes

The Data Clarity Suite takes advantage of the unique
Server-to-Server (S2S) technology developed by Visual
Analytics. The S2S technology seamlessly connects local
and remote data sources into a network of distributed
databases and users across different agencies1
organizations.
The network forms what some people would consider the
ultimate virtual data warehouse. Unlike traditional data
warehouses which are cumbersome, complex, and
expensive to implement, the S2S approach enables each
owner of data in the network to maintain control and
security of the data while allowing access to the data. This
approach removes all cost and security concerns as data is
never copied or moved from its original location and each
owner maintains full control over access. Furthermore,
since the data access logs are recorded locally for each
site or data source, the owners have full disclosure over
how their data is being utilized.
Each location in the network runs its own DIG Server
creating maps and views of data that the consumers of the
network will be able to access. This innovative approach to
data sharing ensures that:

+ Data is always up to date (never copied or duplicated)
+ There are no ownership issues (owners of the data
maintain their ownership)

+ Security, data access, and data purity is maintained by
+

the original owners of the data
(no changes can be made by outside users)
There is no costly translation, fixed schema, or data
transport (as would be required by a data warehouse
or other approaches)

Adding new data to a S2S network can literally take a
matter of hours or even minutes - it is a simple process of
deciding what data should be made available within the
network and who will be granted access.
Our S2S technology is the single best approach to finding
criminals utilizing data across multiple data sources or
multiple agencies and can be used inter-state or on a
national basis in a relatively short time frame. With the
S2S approach, the network data is always live and up-todate, whenever any source of information in the network
is updated, all end-users with the appropriate
permissions can find and utilize the information in a
timely manner.

Security, data access, and data purity
is maintained by the original owners of the data

Visual Analytics Inc. www.visualanalytics.com (877) 407-4VAI
50 Citizens Way, Suite 202 Frederick, MD 21701
CopyrighD May 2010 FW20, All rights reserved

Cornbating Terrorism
Terrorism is a global threat influencing the attitude and
behavior of a target group by threatening - or carrying out
devastating actions. These actions, as we have seen,
can and do include the use of conventional weapons,
biological, chemical, or nuclear agents.

The Visual Analytics Solution
VisuaLinksa and Digital Information Gateway (DIG") are
specifically designed to retrieve information from varied
formats and sources to expose hidden activity and
behavioral patterns.

Today's terrorism also threatens our economic and
information resources. Our vulnerability to terrorist attacks
expands with our growing reliance on information
technologies. Increased access to information and the
centralization of vital components of local, national, and
global infrastructure threaten both local and national
security.

The Visual Analytics solution allows you to:
+ Identify Relationships - uncover interactions and
relationships between terrorist groups and their
members.
+ Link Group Members - understand formal and
informal organizational structures.
+ Connect Networks - expose connections between
group members, outside individuals, other
organizations, locations, facilities and communication
networks.
+ Expose Group Operations- show shared assets,
materials and supplies used to carry out terrorist
missions.
+ Track Technologies - track different types of
technologies used as components for manufacturing
terrorist weapons.
+ Understand Behaviors - track and analyze group
behaviors for early detection of potential threats.
+ Assess Vulnerabilities evaluate funding
resources, recruiting methods, communication
networks, storage facilities and other resources to
uncover potential vulnerabilities.

-

Investigating today's terrorist groups requires inter-agency
communication and collaboration. It is essential that law
enforcement agencies and task forces be able to collect
and analyze data from multiple data sources in order to
monitor, penetrate, infiltrate, and prevent terrorist activity.
Terrorism is a premeditated act that requires detectable
preparations including money transfers, material
purchases and personnel movement. Intelligence works
against terrorism.

-

"Actionable intelligence is essential for preventing acts of
terrorism. The timely and thorough analysis and
dissemination of information about terrorists and their
activities will improve the government's ability to disrupt
and prevent terrorist acts and to provide useful warning to
the private sector and our population. "

- President George W. Bush
as quoted in "TheDepartment of Homeland Security"
from www.whitehouse.org

Visual Analytics Inc. www.visualanalytics.com (877) 407-4VAI
50 Citizens Way, Suite 202 Frederick, MD 21701
Copyright@ May 2010 W20.All rights resewed

Border Security

Narcotics Trafficking

Protection of our national borders is a critical task in our
national defense plan.

Law enforcement initiatives attempt to attack drug trafficking
organizations at every level through a careful coordination of
local, state and federal efforts.

The United States shares 5,525 miles of border with
Canada and 1,989 miles of border with Mexico. The U.S.
maritime border includes 95,000 miles of shoreline, and a
3.4 million square mile exclusive economic zone. Every
year, more than 500 million people cross our borders to
enter the United States. Some 330 million of these people
are non-citizens.
Securing the borders requires the cooperation of several
federal agencies - including those responsible for
transportation security, immigration control, border patrol,
customs, and maritime security - in support of the overall
goal of providing Homeland Security.
The ability to research and share information among and
between these agencies is mission-critical.
The Visual Analytics Solution
VisuaLinksaand Digital lnformation Gateway (DIG@)are ideal
tools for searching through a wide range of data sources to
extract, analyze and visually expose pattems of activity.
The Visual Analytics solution allows you to:
+ Share lnformation - give every agent the ability to
retrieve information from any and every data source
available with a single search.
+ Visualize Mass Data - expose patterns by reviewing
and analyzing thousand of records.
+ Summarize - quickly produce frequency counts and
statistical information.
+ Track and Comlate - compare data values such as
names, IDs and addresses to track and identify
individuals.
+ ldentify Routes - use geographic data to pinpoint
and plot entrance routes.

Law enforcement officials must constantly adapt to new
situations, make greater use of intelligence, stay current
with technology, and expand cooperation between
agencies to be effective in their drug control efforts.
All levels of law enforcement must employ operational
(reactive) and strategic (proactive) analysis methods that
focus on both short-term and long-term goals. In order to
effectively perform both types of analysis, law enforcement
agents must be able to access a wide range of information to
uncover hidden links between cases which would normally
seem unrelated.
The Visual Analytics Solution
VisuaLinksBand Digital lnformation Gateway (DIGa) are
speufically designed to retrieve informationfrom varied formats
and sources to expose hidden activity and behavioral pattems.
The Visual Analflcs solution allows you to:
+ Share Information- give every agent the ability to
retrieve infortnabon from any and every data source
available.
+ Identify Relationships- uncover interactions and
relationships between perpetrators and organizations.
+ WsualizeMass Data - expose pattems reviewing and
analyzing huge amounts of data, with no sue limit.
+ Discover Patterns - quickly plot and analyze
geographic and chorological data.
+ Summarize - quickly produce frequency counts and
statistical information.
+ Track and Comlate - compare data values such as
names, IDs and addresses to track and dent@individuals.

CIR-

Visual Analytics Inc. ww.visualanalytics.com (877) 4074VAI
50 Citizens Way, Suite 202 Frederick, MD 21701
Copyright@ May 2010 FW20, All rights reserved

The Common Criminal
Vandalism - personal property theft - domestic violence
- credit card fraud -firearms violations - money
laundering - burglary - violent crime - environmental
crime - cyber crime - identity theft. These are but a few

The Visual Analytics Solution
VisuaLinksmand Digital Information Gateway (DIGm)are
ideal tools for searching through vast amounts of data to
extract, analyze and visually expose patterns of activity.

of the illicit activities encountered by local, state and
federal law enforcement communities every day.

The Visual Analytics solution allows you to:
+ Access Data - search any and every data
source available with a single search.
+ Visualize Mass Data -work with thousands of data
records with no size limitations.
+ Identify Relationships - expose interactions and
relationships between all types of data, including
suspects, organizations, ID numbers, vehicles, etc.
+ Find Networks - visually display and analyze clusters
of related data.
+ Summarize Data -produce statistical information on
the fly.
+ Track and Correlate - compare data values, such as
names, using Soundex and other matching
algorithms.
+ Share Data - rapidly respond to inter-agency data
requests.

How many of these crimes can be linked to individuals
acting as agents of criminal organizations? Even vehicle
theft is widely believed to be a form of organized crime
generating billions of dollars in revenues each year.
Among the many challenges in solving all types of crime
is sifting through the vast amounts of information
collected and stored in a wide variety of formats in a wide
variety of systems throughout the country, and in fact, the
world.
The ability to access and analyze the right information at
the right time is an indispensable factor in identifying and
finding the perpetrators. Data mining is a powerful
approach that supports crime analysis, crime mapping,
and criminal intelligence.

T

Pob

MOhammed

Expose Grolrp Operations - show shared assets,
materials and supplies used to carry out terrorist missions.
Visual Analytics Inc. www.visualanalytics.com (877) 407-4VAI
50 Citizens Way, Suite 202 Frederick, MD 21701
Copyright0 May 2010 FW20, All rights reserved

l

I

Law ENFORCEM~-~SOLUTIONS
Money Laundering & Financial Crimes
Criminals launder money to hide criminal activity - everything from drug trafficking to tax evasion - that generates
the money. It is the means that criminals use to legitimize
the money.
Although the exact amount of money laundered yearly is
still not known, experts estimate that money laundering
schemes are in the billions of dollars - possibly as high as
$100 billion.
Money launderers operate through layers of activities
designed to hinder the detection, investigation and
prosecution of their activities. This is often accomplished
by structuring transactions, establishing businesses
specifically for the purposes of manipulating accounts, or
simply coercing individuals into ignoring reporting regulations.
The Visual Analytics Solution
VisuaLinkse and Digital Information Gateway (DIGe) are an
indispensable toolset for highlighting and tracking suspicious transactions that can expose illegal financial activity.
The Visual Analytics solution allows you to:
+ Access Data - search through and extract information from a wide variety of data source at once.
+ Visualize Mass Data - review thousands of financial
transactions to identify questionable behaviors and
unusual filing patterns.
+ Expose Structures - identify and display relationships that exist between individuals and organization
involved in criminal activities.
+ Examine Accounts - reveal associations between
accounts and people, banks, organizations, or other
accounts.
+ Identify Duplicates - discover indirect relationships
that show addresses, accounts or ID numbers with
multiple users.
+ Analyze Transactions- uncover different types of
transactions used by criminals.
+ Pinpoint Exchanges - use chronological and geographic data to target asset seizures.

Examine Accounts - reveal associations between accounts
and people, banks, organizations...

Telephone Toll Analysis
Telephone toll analysis is often underutilized in criminal
investigations due to the sheer volume of data to be
processed.
When properly conducted, the analysis of telephone
activity can single-handedly expose a variety of deceitful
behaviors including long distance and cellular phone fraud
and drug trafficking patterns, as well as validate associations between people and organizations.
Data mining technologies allow investigatorsto uncover
linkages between telephone numbers and peoplelorganizations to expose complex communication networks, identify
investigative targets, and track chronological or sequential
calling patterns.
The Visual Analytics Solution
VisuaLinkse is ideally suited to identifying suspicious
patterns of telephone activity.
The Visual Analytics solution allows you to:
+ Display Intense Activity - show any type of connection between telephone numbers to expose the
commonality, pathways and networks that form
between large collections of numbers.
+ Develop Frequency Counts - summarize the
volume of calls from and between telephone numbers.
+ Plot TelephoneActivity - use proven placement
techniques to visually reveal multiple patterns.
+ Consolidate Registered Numbers - merge or "alias"
telephone numbers to view any organization, geographic area, or phone exchange as a single element.
+ Analyze Relationships - discover existing and
emerging networks and their relationships.
+ Organize Calls - group telephone number by area
codes, exchanges, subscribers, or any other characteristic to display patterns and trends.

Display Intense
Activity show any type of
connection between
telephone numbers

Visual Analytics Inc. www.visualanalytics.com (877) 407-4VAI
50 Citizens Way. Suite 202 Frederick, MD 21701
Copyright0 May 2010 FW20, All rights resewed

MedicalIHealth Care Services

lnsurance Fraud

The medical and health care industries are prime candidates
for data analysis and visualization tools. There are a myriad
of practical applications of such tools in these industries.

lnsurance fraud costs the U.S. insurance industry over
$50 billion each year.

The ability to access and analyze data related to illness, injury
and disease occurrence, frequency and prognosis allows for
accurate tracking and cause resolution of outbreaks.
Pattern analysis can also contribute to the medical
community's ability to prepare for and respond to uncommon occurrences.
Additionally, thorough data analysis can help uncover fraud,
both by and through a medical practitioner. Data analysis
exposes such fraudulent situations as, unbundling,
upwding, pharmacy fraud and use of ghost patients.
The Visual Analytics Solution
VisuaLinksmis a state-of-the-art data analysis and visualization tool capable of managing, analyzing and visually
presenting large volumes of data.

The Visual Analytics solution allows you to:
+ Visualize Mass Data -work with thousands of data
records with no size limitations.
+ Identify Relationships - expose interactionsand
relationships between all types of data, including
diagnoses, geographic areas, symptoms, etc.
+ Find Networks - visually display and analyze clusters
of related data.
+ Summarize Data - produce statistical information on
the fly.

Depending on the type of insurance offered, people
ranging from policy holders to doctors and lawyers have
been involved in some form of insurance fraud.
Professional criminal fraud rings target carriers and flood
them with thousands of fraudulent claims each year.
The task of investigating large numbers of questionable
claims is formidable, slow and resource-intensive.
Data management and analysis can eliminate much of
the basic fraud. lnsurance carriers can also automate
advanced warning of possible fraudulent behavior
through thorough analysis and categorization of
policyholders.
The Visual Analytics Solution
VisuaLinksmand Digital Information Gateway (DIG@) are
ideal tools for quickly and easily identifying suspicious
activity among recurring individuals and organizations
Using the advanced information retrieval capabilities of
DIG to extract information from multiple data sources
simultaneously and the powerful data mining,
visualization and analysis capabilities of VisuaLinks.

The Visual Analytics solution allows you to:
+ Establish Connections - expose relationshipsthat
exist between insurance customers.
+ Expose Indirect Relationships - visually show
relationships that span across individuals and organizations perpetrating fraud.
+ ldentifjf Fraudulent Identifiers - perform name and
value matching for unparalleled data exploration.
+ Track and Correlate - quickly identify new targets and
expose patterns of activity in virtually any database.

Visual Analytics Inc. www.visualanalytics.com (877) 4074VAI
50 Citizens Way, Suite 202 Frederick, MD 21701
Copyright@ May 2010 FW20, All rights resewed

Businesses
Each year, fraud, waste and abuse cost private industry
and government organizations billions of dollars.
Virtually every company can benefit from tracking and
analyzing Internet, Email, and phone traffic, facility access,
purchase orders and other accounting and administrative
activities.
Every company - from large corporations to smaller
business entities - must closely monitor transactions that
lend themselves to fraud and embezzlement, such as,
accounts payable activities and merchandise returns.
Additionally, organizations need to proactively analyze
business processes to ensure that the most efficient
methods are in place and being utilized.

The Visual Analytics Solution
VisuaLinksa is a state-of-the-art data analysis and visualization tool that exposes costly activities that traditional
audits do not reveal.
The Visual Analytics solution allows you to:
+ Analyze Processes - expose systemic organizational or procedural issues.
+ Examine Statements - visually identify deposits or
checks not included in a reconciliation.
+ Identify Collusive Fraud - expose questionable
transactions, practices and systematic fraud in a variety of
activities.
+ Inspect Sales Transactions- show commonalities
among point-of-sale terminals and sales people for
products that are used in fraudulent purchases.
+ Expose Excessive Voids or Credits - flag excessive
voids where payments may be diverted for criminal gain.

Examine Statements - visually identdy deposits
or checks not included in a reconciliation.

Increasing Investigative EfSiciency
helping analysts identify patterns more efficiently and effectively
Visual Analytics Inc. www.visualanalytics.com (877) 407-4VAI
50 Citizens Way, Suite 202 Frederick, MD 21701
Copyright@ May 2010 W 2 0 ,All rights reserved

Visual Analyfics

Capabilities...
Data Visualization
Network Mining
Advanced Link Analysis

Visual Analytics

Solutions...

Multiple Data Source Integration
Combating Terrorism
Collaborative Analyses
Enabling Actionable Intelligence
Information Sharing
Supporting Law Enforcement
Business Intelligence
Uncovering Organized Crime
Relative ScoringIRanking
Examining Telephone Toils
Data Cleansing and Consolidation
Investigating NarcoticsIDrug Crimes
Enterprise Web Deployment
Facilitating Decision Making
Detecting Medicalllnsurance Fraud
Exposing Money Laundering Trends
Analyzing Asset Management Risk
Discovering Regulatory & Compliance Issues

