CornmunicatlonLtd.

Septier
Monitoring Center

:

For lawful interception and
intelligence gathering
Septier Monitoring Center solution
intercepts, collects, analyzes and retains
communications arriving from telephony and
packet based networks.

Designed for maximum security, the system includes an
extensive permissions mechanism, detailed internal logging
as well as different encryption options. System management
is done from a central point by using an intuitive graphical
user interface.

Designed for law enforcement and homeland security agencies
fighting cyber crime and terrorism, the system is built to
handle high volumes of information in a modular and scalable
architecture. Field proven in many countries around the
world, the Septier Monitoring Center complies with the
latest ETSl and CALEA lawful interception standards as well
as other regional regulations.

Integrated reporting and analysis tools allow the system
to prepare evidence for legal prosecution or turn gathered
data into valuable information and conclusions.
Septier Monitoring Center incorporates a complete set
of advanced tools such as text mining, language detection,
OCR, speaker identification, link analysis and much more.
These tools tightly integrated into the system central
database provide the agent a powerful toolbox to better
confront with today's challenges. An integrated Element
Management System (EMS) allows the system administrator
t o automatically receive alarms and health status of the
system.

Incorporating the
accepted standards,
allows for simple system
interoperability with
variety of different vendors, network elements, protocols,
solutions, and products. By utilizing a unified interception
approach the Septier solution is able t o handle all sources
of modern networks and communications types in a cost
effective way.

Septier Monitoring Center maintains a high-level of
performance through the use of state-of-the-art hardware
electronics and the latest embedded software architecture.
The Septier Monitoring Center solution can be deployed
and configured t o adapt to an ever changing and evolving
communications world and standards, bandwidth capacity,
and customer needs. Additionally, Septier Location Tracking
products can complement the installation and add a critical
dimension t o the intelligence analysis picture.

Septier Monitoring Center

For lawful interception and intelligence gathering
-

p
-

-

Supported networks

Wireline, Cellular, Broadband, Satellite,
Microwave

One system may support multiple
networks in a cost effective way

Surveillance of services and
applications

Voice, VolP, Fax, DTMF, SMS, MMS, E-mail,
Chat, Web surfing, Web-mail, Instant
messaging, Push-to-Talk, Video, FTP

Unified system allows for scalable growth
with new services and applications

Interception standards

ETSl TS 101 671 (voice), TS 101 331, ES 201
158, TS 102 232-1 to 102 232-6 (IP, E-Mail,
VolPI. ANSIIATIS: J-STD-025-B(Voice. CDMAI.
Tl.678~2(VolP), T1.lPNA (lnternet, 'TI .IAS~;
T1.724 (UMTS), TIA-1072 (PoC), 3GPP: TS
33.106, TS 33.107, TS 33.108 (UMTS),
Packetcable v1.5 (Cable)

System supports both international
standards as well as regional regulations

Analysis toolbox

Link analysis, Text mining, Language
detection, OCR, Speaker identification

Used to help the agent in his advanced
work

CDRs, IPDRs, Location

Used for advanced intelligence analysis
and compliance with regulations

Location tracking

Active GMLCISMLC, Active Assisted GPS,
Passive Et Massive GMLC supporting GSM,
UMTS, CDMA, iDEN, WiMAX, Wi-Fi networks

Combine location data with intercepted
information to enhance the intelligence
picture

Security

Role-based permissions Control, Transparent
separation of multiple agencies, Audit trails
of all system events and user actions,
IPsecISSLlTLSencryption, Encrypted
storage, System monitor and alarms, Secure
remote access

System can be easily configured to any
organizationalsecurity needs, standards,
and regulations

.p

Data retention
p

About Septier
Septier provides innovative, reliable and cost-effective
telecom and packet based solutions for law enforcement
and intelligence agencies, and for communications service
providers.

the world, the Company is focused on quality and
interoperability. Septier products and personnel have
been an integral part of our customers successfully
meeting their needs and requirements.

These solutions include communications interception and
analysis systems,cellular Location tracking infrastructure,
anti-fraud applications and network surveillance products.

As an advanced technology company in a rapidly changing
world, we know that a commitment to strong and dynamic
relationships with the customer remains an important
element of conducting business.

With years of proven track record with customers around

For more information please visit
www.septier.com
By providing this document, Septier Communication Ltd. is not making any representatlonsregarding the correctness or completeness of its contents and
reserves the right to alter this document at any time without notice. All trademarks are the property of their respective owners. Q 2009 Septier Communication
Ltd. All rights reserved.

