Benefits
The ‘Voice of the Customer’ Comes Alive

Cogito Monitor guides you through the
volatile world of consumer opinions
and offers:

Cogito Monitor is the leading technology for the
automatic detection and analysis of customer sentiment
in blogs, forums and social media. The “voice of the
customer” is processed and organized into precise and
detailed reports in real time.

strategic value from the extraction
of online information;

Cogito Monitor uses semantic technology to recognize,
read and automatically understand the opinions
expressed by users as they relate to companies,
brands, competitors, products, and services.
In short, Cogito Monitor can measure, tally and graph
customer feedback found in millions of web pages,
review site postings and consumer forums.

detailed tables and graphs on brands
down to the individual product, and
even on product features and
attributes;
opinion categorization to provide
insight on the viewpoints about price,
service and quality;
a flexible platform that addresses
various workflows, processes and costs;
no software to be installed and no
need for endless modifications.

Cogito Monitor is a online service which
can be accessed by marketing, sales,
planning and general management
professionals. Monitor allows
professionals to intercept and analyze
the signals, feedback and insight left
by consumers on the web.
Traditional search tools are able to find
the presence of specific words
(keywords) but are unable to discover
a customer’s opinion. Cogito Monitor
uses semantic processing to understand
the underlying conceptual meaning of
a customer’s opinion.
The depth of understanding and insight
provided by Monitor is equivalent to
more traditional focus groups and
surveys, but without the time and
expense. In addition, Monitor constantly
provides timely updates which identify
“tipping points”, viral marketing waves
and other fast moving trends, thus
giving companies the opportunity to
respond with a competitive advantage.
Cogito Monitor research outcome comparing BMW flagship
product 7-Series car with Audi flagship product A-8.
Customers rate the 7-series slightly higher on average.

Main functions of Cogito Monitor
Monitoring sources
Automatically monitors any web site, and
increases the number of the most relevant
sources (e.g. web sites, blogs, forums, social
networks). Sources can be segmented by
category and distributed via portals.
Extraction of information
Identifies the most relevant concepts, interprets
the meaning of the texts and extracts
information useful for strategic decision-making
with the precision that only semantic technology
can offer.
Analysis and classification of contents
Classifies the information extracted from the
monitored sources and assign each text to
a specific category according to its subject.
For example, the comment:
“I’m dissatisfied with the attitude of the shop
assistants at CompanyX” is identified as an
opinion about the politeness of the staff.
Together with other similar comments, it will
provide a global view of customers’ opinions
about the company’s retail outlets.

Cogito Monitor research showing the competitive position of BMW
as an overall brand.

Sentiment detection
Automatically assigns each comment to one of five levels (e.g. Very Good, Good, Fair, Poor, Very Poor) based on
the sentiment expressed.
Reporting
Provides real time reports on the extracted data. The standard reports available include: average sentiment rating,
distribution, history, comparisons with other brands/products.
Flexible visualization of data
Data can be viewed in two different modes:
A dashboard to compare and contrast information: from the opinions on a company's products and services,
to the absolute sentiment towards a company (or its products and services), to the instant creation of graphs for
a given time range, to a comparison of competing companies or products.
Drill-down capability to investigate data at different hierarchical levels: starting with the automatic extraction
of the main information taken directly from the text (companies, products, services, geographical places, etc.),
on through to greater levels of detail, and ultimately down to the original text, so the user can view the actual
posts.

Expert System
Expert System is the leading provider of semantic software, which
discovers, classifies and interprets text information. All Expert System
products, which are based on the patent pending technology Cogito®,
leverage the company’s expertise in the development of business solutions
for the primary markets (i.e. Automotive, Consumer Electronics, Oil &
Gas, Media, Mobile, etc.) and support the activities of Knowledge
Management, Customer Care and Intelligence. Worldwide customers
include Eni Group, Pirelli, ANSA, Telecom Italia, Microsoft, BNP Paribas,
the Italian Ministry of Defense, and the Ministry of Interior Affairs.

www.expertsystem.net
info@expertsystem.net

