FORENSIC INTEL

L

QUICKLY AND AUTOMATICALLY
IDENTIFY INTELLIGENCE OR EVIDENCE ON
COMPUTERS, REMOVABLE MEDIA & CELL PHONES

C

!FAST
C O V E R S A L L THE BASES
Controlled by a simple touch
screen interface. SPEKTOR is a

C d i a u r e and deplay inseconds.

Safe, easy and fast data
acquisition from multiple devices

single device that quickly collects
and reviews data from all types of
computers, removable media, cell
phones and GPS devices.

and Go' design can be deployed by ayone

INFORMED DECISIONS
I

Designedfor relatively unskilled

.>

(F~RENSEALLY ACCEPTABLE
Ettictent and brensiidty sxmd prooess, data is

users and built on sound forensic

capturedad~wiUIoutcanpranise

principles, its unique touch screen

I

interface guides operators through

-F

capturing and reviewing data in a

SPEKTOR F-nsic

InCUigence Works on ail

safe & controlled manner allwing

types d PC's. MC's'

them to make informed decisions

devices. The o p t i a l SPEICTOR Phone

in a forensically acceptable way

lntelllgance module handle6 m e than NO0

INTUITIVE AND
COMPREHENSIVE

Browse and review multiple file
formats

Automatic analysis and repotting
allanrs the user to quickly brarvse
and view most common file
formats including images, multimedia, PDFs, ofice documents.

amt rein-

storzge

forensically sound data acquisition, analysis and

p

a. SUPWlRTED
24hr SPEKTOR suppod site giws automated

review solution designed for front line officers from
the Law Enforcement and Government communities.

brawser activity, email, chat logs,

upddes. FAQs and access totiained s u p p d
ex-

profile settings, details of
previously attached storage
devices, recent file activity.
network setting, installed software

Built on the tried and tested scanning technology from another of our highly successful products. SPEKTOR scans target
devices with incredible speed ensuring minimum Time on target". SPEKTOR shows you data of interest within minutes
without the need for forensic skills.

and much, much more.
Existing solutions can be s l w and even miss data because they perform tasks such as keyword searches or hash
matching during data collection. SPEKTOR gets its speed by using the power of the Control Pod. rather than the target

PC, to perform analysis faster on the collected data.

I CALL: +44 (0) 845 125 4400

I

~ e a a m i n e s d ~ ~ n g d e t a i f e d

results within a few minUes d capture
SPEKTORCB Forensic Intelligence is a fast and

I

KEY FEATURES

.=rCn
I I.m @
l
Forensic lntelligence

At the heart of the SPEKTOR solution is the SPEKTOR Control Pod running SPEKTOR Forensic lntelligence Designed for ultimateflexibilty, in the lab or on target,
SPEKTOR collectors can be configured in seconds to acquire data from Windows, Apple MAC or Linux computers and the SPEKTOR Control Pod also has write
protected interfaces enabling it to qu~cklyacquire data from directly connected devices such as memory sticks, MP3 players, memory cards
hard disks using a USB to SATAlPATA adapter. Each SPEKTOR also includes two unique features:
REMOTE UPDATE: Make sure your SPEKTOR always has the latest capabilities using the fully automatic "one click secure update function. This feature
reduces the cost of ownership and support on units that are geographically hard to reach.
REMOTE ACCESS: Allows the operator to grant secure remote access. over any network, to the SPEKTOR Control Pod so that collected data can be remotely
reviewed and assessed - dramatically reducing thetime between data collection and decision.
HARDWARE FEATURES
Designed for tough environments. the SPEKTOR Control Pod is built
m

on the DELL XFR which rises to the tough challenges faced in the

Dell's exclusive Ballistic Amlor
Protection System

m

Meets MIL-STD-810 & IP65

m

Solid state disk drive

most demand~ngenv~ronmentsbu~ltto withstand pounding rain,
blowing dust, dirt, extreme temperatures, accidental drops and more.

SPEKTOR comes complete wdh five SPEKTOR collector disks and a
Bright, WXGA touch screen
m

range of accessories that enable it to cope with all eventualities.

Lightweight
With its combination of speed and strength, SPEKTOR is the perfect

Long battery life

choice for operations where speed, ease of use and a high degree of

Updates via network & USB

mobility in tough environments is required.
m

All you need in one box

KEY FEATURES

Phone Intelligent

-l

Supported devices
include:

Blackberrys
iPhone IiPad

The need to extract and review data from cell phones is increasingly common and, until now, required first responders to
have multiple specialist equipment or seize the handset for lab based analysis.

SPEKTOR Phone Intelligence is an opt~onalmodule for SPEKTOR which enables the contents of more than 3100 cell
phones, satellite phones and GPS devices to be quickly a~quiredand reviewed using a simple touch interface. All cables

Satellite Phones

and accessories are included and organized in the standard SPEKTOR case, making SPEKTOR the first all-in-one "grab

CDMA Handsets

bag" that enables a first responder to do everything from previewing the contents of a memory card to creating a forensic

GSM Handsets
GPS Devices
SIM only analysis

image of a PC, examin~nga cell phone or extracting the contents from a GPS device.

Quarterly upgrades continuously expand the number of supported handsets as well as providing new software features. All
supported handsets are retained to ensure compatibility with new software.

Memory card capture
A special "Generic" feature allows operators to attempt collection from phones where the exact model number is unknown.
SPEKTOR Phone lntelligence wtll attempt to identify the device and perform an extraction of as much data as possible.

For more information or to request a demo, contact a product
advisor using the contact details below:

CALL: +44 (0) 845 125 4400

Evidence Talks Ltd
PO Box 7394
Wlbn Keynes, MK8 OWR. UK.

