 

ELAMAN ISS SUMMARY
A Warm Thank You to Our Guests
It was a pleasure to welcome you at the recent ISS exhibition in Dubai, February 25-28,
where we held a joint stand with Nokia Siemens Networks (NSN).
As a follow-up to our participation at the exhibition, this newsletter will provide further
insight into technical solutions on offer from Elaman, and which we look forward to
presenting you personally at your premises or at our facilities in Munich, Germany.

Communication Monitoring Concept

Elaman provides clients with perfect
communications monitoring solutions.
Elaman gives our clients the possibility to be the best equipped in all
communication monitoring areas,
which include Passive Monitoring,
Computer Monitoring, GSM/UMTS
Monitoring and Location Finding, Satellite Monitoring, IP Monitoring,
Radio Frequency Monitoring and
Room Monitoring.
Nowadays, the threats our clients
are exposed to are highly sophisticated and advanced, thus the only
way to be well protected from these
threats is to match and surpass their
technological level.
Elaman has designed all our communications monitoring systems to
fit perfectly together and complement each other in all operational
tasks and fields.
For further details contact:
holger.rumscheidt@elaman.de

2008| ISS SUMMARY  1 
 

 

Surveillance Vans
Surveillance Vans Support Ford-MB-Toyota-Renault-VW-GM, etc.
Elaman will individually design surveillance vehicles to your exact requirements,
meeting with you at all the major milestones during the design and integration
process. This ensures that each vehicle will meet your current needs and can
also be upgraded in line with future technological developments.
These vehicles are especially designed to meet individual needs, such as vehicle
type, finish, operational usage, equipment for integration, and whatever you are
looking for, from a very basic surveillance, command or communications vehicle,
including covert satellite communications, to a complete mobile command and
monitoring van.

Technical
Surveillance

TSU Product Areas
-Surveillance vans and cars
-Digital audio surveillance transmitters
-Video surveillance covert system
-Digital audio/video covert recorders
-COFDM video transmission
-Covert methods of entry
-Low noise covert drills
-Vehicle tracking systems
-Intelligence software databases
-MIDAS intell operations software
-Audio and video enhancement

Elaman’s philosophy is that Technical
Surveillance Equipment should be offered as a whole range, from a single
standalone product to a complete system solution, including training to support any government end-users goals of
achieving successful technical operations.

5610 - New Video/Audio Digital Recorder

Technical Surveillance Counter Measures
To be effective in TSCM it is essential to use trained and qualified people with
proper equipment and a solid background knowledge of surveillance techniques.
Elaman is in a unique position to provide knowledge and equipment to counter
threats and offer training in the latest equipment and techniques involved in information gathering and surveillance. TSCM engineers are able to receive advanced
training at later stages that provide more effective countermeasures. The threat
level for cables/LAN/Wireless LAN has increased dramatically, and it is understood
this makes up 65 percent of the threat.
Elaman provides equipment solutions including the new Wireless IT detection and
location system with G2 Systems providing all the professional training services.

2008| ISS SUMMARY  2 
 

 

Intell Training

Contact Details
Elaman is a company backed by many
years of experience in technical intelligence solutions.
One of the major foundations is our focus on the technical and operational training for both intell and TSCM, which is
managed by G2 Systems.

Elaman GmbH
German Security Solutions
Holger Rumscheidt
Managing Director
Seitzstr. 23
80538 Munich
Holger.Rumscheidt@elaman.de
www.elaman.de

Training is carried out at our facilities in
Europe or at the end-users premises.

ISS Singapore 2008

Finfisher
The Ultimate Surveillance Tool
Finfisher USB Suite

FinSpy

The FinFisher USB Suite has been engineered for use by any agent, even
with minimal computer knowledge, to
gain access to a target computer.

FinSpy is a cutting‐edge, professional
Intrusion Tool for Windows Systems,
which enables government agencies to
remotely access and monitor a target
computer.
The basic functionality includes features
like Skype Monitoring, Chat Logging,
Keystroke Recording, accessing printed
and deleted files, and many more.
The Intrusion Tool is completely hidden
and all its communications are entirely
covert.

FinFly
FinFly is a transparent HTTP proxy that
can modify files while they are being
downloaded.
Elaman has created two versions of this
software: FinFly‐Lite and FinFly‐ISP.

Presentation
Due to the highly sensitive nature of the
FinFisher, which is only for sale to authorized government end-users, please
contact us to arrange a personal technical presentation.

ISS Singapore 9-11 June 2008
For further information or an invitation to visit us at the ISS Singapore,
the world’s largest gathering of Asia
Pacific Telecom Operators, Law Enforcement, Intelligence and Defense
Analysts responsible for lawful interception, electronic investigations
and network Intelligence gathering,
contact:
Johnny Debs
Gamma Group
Marketing Manager
jdebs@gammagroup.com

Important Dates
GPEC Munich,
ISS Singapore,
Natia, San Jose,
ISS Prague,
Milipol, Doha,

June 3 -5, 2008
June 9-11, 2008
July 12-18, 2008
October 1-3, 2008
Nov. 17-19, 2008

FinFisher IT Intrusion Seminars
Dates upon Request.

2008| ISS SUMMARY  3 
 

