FINFISHER™ : GOVERNMENTAL IT INTRUSION
AND REMOTE MONITORING SOLUTIONS

www.gammagroup.com

FINFISHER™
it intrusion

FINFISHER™ : GOVERNMENTAL IT INTRUSION
AND REMOTE MONITORING SOLUTIONS

FinFisher™ is the leading offensive IT Intrusion program through which
Gamma provides complementary solutions, products and advanced
training capabilities to Government end-users who are seeking
world class offensive techniques for information gathering from
suspects and targets.
FinFisher™ combines trendsetting IT Investigation methods into one
comprehensive IT Intrusion portfolio. This gives the Law Enforcement
Agencies and Intelligence Community a vast array of intrusion capabilities from starting up an Intrusion department to providing world-class
solutions and training for enhancing existing resources.

1. Tactical IT Intrusion Portfolio
2. Remote Monitoring & Infection Solutions
3. IT Intrusion Training Institute

WHY INTRUSION TECHNIQUES?
In today‘s high-tech cyber environment computers, mobile phones or
PDAs are being used to transmit and supply information that could
potentially threaten national security.
The increase of cyber crime both through terrorism, intimidation and
industrial espionage are constantly on the rise, and illegal activities are
aided by available technologies such as:
. Encryption technologies:
. HTTPS connections (SSL)
. Instant Messaging (Skype, SimpLite, Blackberry Messenger etc.)
. S/MIME, PGP
. POP/SMTP via SSL/TLS
. VPN Connections
. Global mobility of devices and targets
. Anonymity (Anonymizing proxies, Webmail accounts, etc.)

Conventional Interception technologies can no longer cope with
these challenges. Government Agencies require new missioncritical intelligence technologies to enhance existing capabilities
which, to date, are insufficient within most government product
portfolios.

Gamma addresses ongoing developments in the IT Intrusion field with
solutions to enhance the capabilities
of our clients. Easy to use high-end
solutions and techniques complement
the intelligence community’s knowhow
enabling it to address relevant Intrusion
challenges on a tactical level.

The IT Intrusion Training Program includes
courses on both, products supplied as
well as practical IT Intrusion methods and
techniques. This program transfers years
of knowledge and experience to endusers, thus maximizing their capabilities in
this field.

. FinIntrusion Kit
. FinUSB Suite
. FinFireWire

Remote Monitoring
& Infection Solutions

Tactical IT Intrusion Portfolio

IT Intrusion Training Program

The Remote Monitoring and Infection
Solutions are used to access target systems
giving full access to stored information
with the ability to take control of the
target systems functions to the point of
capturing encrypted data and communications. When used in combination with
enhanced remote infection methods,
Government Agencies will have the capability to remotely infect target systems.

FinSpy . FinSpy
. FinSpy Mobile

. Basic & Advanced Intrusion

FinFly . FinFly USB
. FinFly LAN

. Practical Exploitation

. FinFly Web
. FinFly ISP

. Wireless Intrusion
. Web Application Penetration
. Custom IT Intrusion Training &
Consulting

Company Profile
Gamma Group, established in 1990, provides advanced integrated
technical surveillance and monitoring solutions to national and state
intelligence departments and law enforcement agencies. Gamma
Group is a European-based company with its headquarters in the
United Kingdom and subsidiary offices in Munich, Dubai, Johannesburg, Jakarta and Singapore.
Gamma Group‘s software development headquarters in Munich,
run by world-class IT Intrusion experts, has integrated the ultimate
solution in remote IT monitoring – FinFisher™ – into the monitoring
portfolio, providing Government Agencies with advanced missioncritical IT intelligence capabilities.

Our main fields of operation are:
. Advanced IT intrusion and remote monitoring
. Communications monitoring (tactical & strategic)
. Tactical intelligence and surveillance solutions
. Mobile command and surveillance vehicles
. Specialist intelligence Ops training
. Mission-critical integrated surveillance solutions
Gamma Group – the right partner:
. 20 years experience working with government intelligence agencies
. Long-term and stable partner
. Entirely self-financed, independent and privately-owned company
. Existing global after-sales & support infrastructure
. Dedicated and focused research and development

THE END-USER’S VISION IS OUR MISSION

GAMMA INTERNATIONAL
United Kingdom

www.gammagroup.com

Tel: +44 - 1264 - 332 411
Fax: +44 - 1264 - 332 422
info@gammagroup.com

