GSM-XPZ Family
Technical Specifications

CONFIDENTIAL

1

Overview

GSM-XPZ
Designed as a tactical tool for law enforcement, Government agencies and the Military, the
GSM-XP family of GSM active interception solutions have proven to be a global hit with
proven success in the field.
MMI is proud now to provide preliminary specifications for its next generation solution.
Based on commercial base-station technology this offers a quantum leap in mobile
acquisition rate, higher transmit power, operational ranges and for the first time
simultaneous operation on multiple networks and simultaneous servicing of multiple targets.
A range of products will be available targeted to provide an optimal solution for different
mission scenarios. Key features include:
•

Up to 50 Watts output power on 2 simultaneous channels

•

Up to 4 simultaneous channels, allowing emulation of
- 4 broadcast channels on one network
- 4 broadcast channels on four different networks

•

Dual band solutions covering 900/1800 or 850/1900 MHz and for the first time

•

a world box providing 850/900/1800/1900MHz capability

•

Real time monitoring and intercept of up to 4 simultaneous calls

•

Integrated antenna switch on the vehicle models

•

Capability to service multiple targets – up to 7 targets per carrier

•

Ruggedised carry-case

•

Multiple form factors to cover different operational scenarios
CONFIDENTIAL

2

Model Variants
Three variants will be available:
• GSM-XPZ-PV (Vehicle model )
• GSM-XPZ-HP (Highly Portable model)

GSM-XPZ-PV: The vehicle model is designed for customers with an ‘in-country’
requirement, i.e. operation within their own borders. The system may require a vehicle
installation which will be performed in-country by qualified MMI representatives.
The nature of the installation allows the system to transmit up to 50 Watts which when
added to the improved receive sensitivity and channel equalisation dramatically extends the
range. In addition the system will support multiple channels simultaneously to a maximum of
4 channels within the unit. The PV system is supplied with a bench top power supply to
allow normal use when not installed into a vehicle.

GSM-XPZ-HP: A new model variant this is designed for customers who wish to operate
discretely close to the target. Packaged into a small case, such as a briefcase, the system
can be easily used in public places without alerting targets.
In addition the system will support multiple channels simultaneously to a maximum of 2
channels within the unit. The highly portable variant will be able to transmit up to 250mW in
2 channels configured either as 900/1800 or 850/1900 variants. The antennas will be
integrated with there an option to add an external Power Pack to increase transmitted RF
power.

CONFIDENTIAL

3

Features
Generic Features for GSM-XPZ-PV systems
• Ability to adjust BTS power to a maximum 50W
• Ability to transmit 4 GSM broadcast channels simultaneously
• Enhanced IMSI acquisition rate (theoretically to 60 registrations per BTS per second)
• Intercept of 4 outgoing target calls simultaneously.
• Perform a Blind Call per GSM timeslot = 7 blind calls simultaneously per channel
• Upto 28 Simultaneous Blind Calls whilst IMSI Grabbing
• Advanced manipulation of BCH data to ensure better phone retention (once locked)
• Ability to survey spectrum using custom phone modules
• Display of SERVER & 6 neighbouring cell information to enable simple cell emulation
• Ability to adjust target mobile power once in a call to maximum 2W transmission
• Visual indication of RX power lev (mobile reporting BTS received signal strength)
• Advanced configuration of BTS for emulation of any network type
• Off-line mode for mission file viewing
• Powerful database search facility for quick target identification
• Multiple antenna management using In-built antenna switching circuitry
• Remote system operation via wireless link

Control Options
To provide users with maximum flexibility a range of control options is available; direct
Ethernet connection to the controlling laptop; wireless connection using a suitably enabled
device e.g. PDA, Laptop etc. In this mode multiple users will be able to connect and view
the following information over a secure connection:
• Target Identification – included as standard
• Voice Intercept (only available on PV variant)
• SMS Intercept
• Direction Finding support
• Service Denial
• Bubble mode

CONFIDENTIAL

4

The operator will be able to adapt the Graphical User Interface (GUI) to display the key
information. The GUI will build on the familiarity of the existing GSM-XP to allow both novice
and experienced users the control to easily simultaneously operate 4 basestations.
To enhance security, mission data is stored on an external memory device. This can be
easily switched between multiple systems, or used to examine mission data offline on a
separate PC or on the GSM-XPZ itself. This also allows for protection of mission data, should
the system have to be loaned to other organisations or returned to MMI. All events as per
current GSM-XP operation will be time stamped and logged in a mission file along with
intercepted Voice/SMS data. To maintain the integrity of the data the mission files cannot be
edited or recorded voice replayed without using MMI software.
Operational Modes
Research & Release

Allows phones from up to 4 networks to simultaneously attach to
the GSM-XPZ enabling their IMSI / IMEI to be logged. Once
logged, they are released back to the real network - the most
covert operational mode.

Research & Lock

Locks selected target phones to the GSM-XP BTS Ping Mode
Clones the selected BTS exactly including LAC. A much quicker
and more efficient way of capturing mobiles as it removes the
overheads associated with a location update – the least covert
operational mode.

Bubble Mode

Unless otherwise specified all phones registering to the system
will be locked to the system thus creating a bubble of phones
restricted from accessing the real networks.

Service Denial to all Hostiles
Exclusive Network

Sends a service denial message to all phones, potential
hostiles, that prevents them from rejoining a real network.

Allows friendly phones to use the XPZ as a means to covertly
contact other operatives. Calls made in this way do not use the
real network and are therefore secure.

Target Mobile Actions
Overt Call
Allows operator to call a target phone and optionally converse.
Blind Call

Covert (silent) call to a target phone. Used in conjunction with
directional finding equipment.

Send SMS

Allows operator to send SMS to a target phone.

SIM Swap Indication

Shows indication of SIM swap.

Make Target

Allows operator to make a phone a target.

Invalidate Target

Allows operator to deny service to a selected target.

Make Reject

Allows operator to reject selected phones from the GSM-XP to
prevent any interference by the system.

Show Target

History Shows all recorded activity by the target phone.

CONFIDENTIAL

5

Technical Specifications
The specification will vary depending upon the model purchased however the key
specifications are presented below:
Radio Interface
Transmit/Receive Frequencies:
Channel Frequency:
Output Power:
Receive Sensitivity:
GSM/GPRS Functionality
Channel Capability:
TS0
TS1-7
Call Control Capabilities:

Hopping:
Electrical MMI:
Speech Encoding/Decoding:
MS Power Level Control:
SACCH MEAS Results:
SMS Point-to-Point:
General Specifications
Size:
PV HP Weight:

Euro Variant: E-GSM, GSM, DCS
US Variant: 850 , PCS
Quad Variant: 850, E-GSM, GSM, DCS, PCS
200 KHz
PV up to 50W per band
HP up to 250mW per band
>-95dBm (RAKE receiver).

FCCH, SCH, BCCH, CCCH, SDCCH/4, SACCH/C4
TCH/F+FCCH/F+SACCH/TF
SDCCH/8, SACCH/C8
TCH/F+FCCH/F+SACCH/TF
BS Originated Call (Covert or Alerting), MS Originated Call
(BS Terminated or BS Extended onto real Network), MS
Camp on, MS Camp off, BS Call Disconnect, MS Call
Disconnect
No
Ethernet
Full Rate speech (FR) GSM06.10
GSM900; 5 to 19, GSM1800; 0 to 13.
RXLEV, Timing Advance.
Mobile Originated, BTS Originated

Operating Temperature:
Storage Temperature:

200mm (H) x 500mm (W) x 580mm (D)
70mm (H) x 280mm (W) x 290mm (D)
PV < 28 Kg (55lbs)
HP < 4.5 Kg (10bs)
-5° C to +45°C (23°F to 113°F)
-10° C to +70° C (14°F to 158°F)

Power Consumption
GSM-XPZ-PV
GSM-XPZ –HP

600W
40W

Power Supply
GSM-XPZ-PV
GSM-XPZ -HP

24 Vdc
2 x Li-Ion Batteries (300Wh approx 8 hrs) or
12 Vdc input

CONFIDENTIAL

6

Interface Connectors:
GSM-XPZ-PV

GSM-XPZ-HP

Antennas via N-Type connectors: 2 x 900MHz, 2 x
1800MHz, 2 x combined 900/1800MHz connectors for
Omni-directional antennas.
Data/Audio Interface via Ethernet
Secure Wireless WPA (Optional)
In-built 900/1800MHz Omni-directional antennas.
Data Interface via Ethernet
Secure Wireless WPA

CONFIDENTIAL

7

CONFIDENTIAL

8

