I2-Training
Courses

CONFIDENTIAL

1

I2-Training Courses supplied by Elaman

Operational Analysis Course (Applied Theory) (5 days)
This is an intensive course in applied analytical theory. The course emphasises a disciplined
and structured approach to the analytical process. Training covers a wide range of
techniques for analysing, evaluating, interpreting and disseminating multi-source information,
including inference development, commodity flow analysis, association/network analysis,
and case/timeline analysis.
Delegates learn to apply the appropriate analytical technique in a range of investigative
scenarios and give formal presentations detailing their conclusions and recommendations for
further action. An understanding of analytical methodology is the key to accurate
interpretation of written reports, data and computer generated charts and graphs, and this
course is intended primarily as a pre-cursor to the Analytical Investigation Techniques Course
(i2 v6).

Analytical Investigation Techniques (i2 Analyst’s Notebook v6) (5 days)
This course covers a broad range of technical analytical techniques and basic analytical
theory. It is intended for analysts requiring comprehensive training in computer-aided
analysis using either i2 Analyst Notebook software, and in presentation and briefing
techniques. Analytical Investigation Techniques is designed to be flexible and there are three
variations of the course available; General Analysis, Telephone and Billing Analysis, Financial
Analysis.
The fundamental techniques remain the same in each of the courses, but class
demonstrations and practical exercises have been adapted to reflect the target area of
interest. Courses can also be further tailored to suit requirements.

Refresher Course / Advanced Analytical Techniques (i2 v6)
This course is designed to give participants the opportunity to practice and discuss any
theoretical or technical issues relating to the use of Analyst’s Notebook v6 in the workplace.
The course is flexible and student driven. Topics covered include consolidation of technical
and theoretical techniques and advanced i2 v6 analysis techniques (advanced timeline
analysis, advanced billing analysis, advanced visual searching, selection sets etc).

Database design and manipulation using i2 iBase v4 software (3/4 days)
iBase is a powerful and flexible complete database package specifically designed to allow
analysts and investigators to locate, add, update, store and chart information. A database
can either be generated from new, or can be developed using one of the software’s predesigned ‘Intelligence’ or ‘Fraud’ database templates. Data from a range of other databases
is easily transferred into the iBase database and user access can be managed and controlled
at three different levels. iBase database plugs directly into and is fully compatible with i2’s
visual investigative analysis software, Analyst’s Notebook.
CONFIDENTIAL

2

Telephone Analysis Course (3 days)
This is a 3-day Course covering manual and computerised techniques for analysing
telephone records as part of the wider investigative process. Data is processed using
standard manual techniques for analysing telephone billing and Calling Line Identification
(CLI), and using a range of database and visualisation software such as Microsoft Excel (pivot
tables), and more advanced techniques using i2’s Analyst Notebook software. Information
such as date, time, duration, beacon location, number, patterns of calls, unusual calls and
hours the phone is in use is compiled in a multi-faceted report which provides information on
potential conspirators and on the patterns of traffic on a given telephone line or set of lines.
Calls may uncover the dimensions, scope and geographical extent of a criminal or terrorist
network and previously unknown co-conspirators. The course includes both theory and
practical sessions.

i2 TextChart (User 1 day, Designer 1 day)
i2 TextChart is powerful user-guided text extraction and visualisation software that makes
visual sense of text-based information. Using the software, the analyst can quickly identify
and transform text-based information into a structured graphical format familiar to users of
i2’s Analyst’s Notebook. The course is designed to complement the Analytical Investigation
Techniques course (i2 ANB v6).

Strategic Assessments Course (2 days)
Provides training to those who are to be involved in drafting, evaluating and assessing a
wide range of information from a variety of sources in order to make projections into the
near- or longer-term future. The course includes an overview of the assessments structure
and processes, the roles of those involved in the assessments process, analysing and
evaluating information, writing synthesised, objective reports in a structured format, making
assessments and drawing conclusions based on findings, providing recommendations and
action plans, report dissemination.

CONFIDENTIAL

3

CONFIDENTIAL

4

