Newsletter 1/07
February 2007

News
ELAMAN works closely with clients to develop a total system
solution to their needs and to ensure that they are
equipped, trained and manned to meet the formidable
challenges in the field of communication.
new and most attrac-

tive devices, it benefits
Adding new products solutions to our
from a new audio solution
portfolio is an ongoing process. Therethat ensures complete absence
fore from now on ELAMAN
of echo and provides best quality,
provides a Newsletter whenever
comparable to that of a traditional
important innovations are
phone call.
coming up.

G O V E R N M E N T A L

GSM Monitoring System Semi Active
Tracking Device
GSM-GPS
GSM communication
protection: Mobile
Encryption for Secure
Communiction
Thuraya Monitoring
System

GSM Monitoring
System Semi Active:
Falcon E+ System
The FALCON E+ system is designed and developed as a Semi
__Active OFF-THE-AIR GSM-Monitoring system. The system provides the
option of both stationary and mobile
operation The FALCON E+ system deciphers A5.1 and A5.2 ciphering algorithms online. The system does not require the service provider‘s SIM for
operation because uses cloning of the
targets phone in real time. Therefore,
all the calls made by the target are
billed into its account.

S E C U R I T Y

S O L U T I O N S

Kind regards
Your Elaman
Team

Audio Surveillance
Network (ASN)

Passive line Monitoring
The device does not require special installation processes or complex settings. Encryption keys are easy to configure directly by the user, thus ensuring
total privacy.
Smallest system on the market!
Radio Monitoring System:
Tracking Device GSM-GPS / Module
GSM-A7 Box
The GSM-A7/Box is a GSM audio transmitter with integrated GPS module,
motion detector, Lithium Ion accumulator, charging unit and switched output
and logging function. It is a small sized
device in a robust waterproofed aluminium box.

The configuration and working parameters are controlled via SMS.
The device comes together with a laptop and administration software inclusive maplog tracking
software with basic digital
maps.

Mobile Encryption for Secure
Communiction
The ultimate solution for GSM communications protection. Now available on

elaman GmbH • German Security Solutions
Seitzstraße 23 • 80538 Munich • Germany
Tel: +49-89-24 20 91 80 • Fax: +49-89-24 20 91 81 • info@elaman.de • www.elaman.de
HRB München 153662 • Ust-IdNr.: DE814086265 • Geschäftsführer: Holger Rumscheidt

1

Audio Surveillance Network
(ASN)
Audio Surveillance Network (ASN) is a
complete solution for law enforcement
agencies to collect, transmit, store and
analyze audio coming from distant targets at a centralized location. ASN consists of both hardware and software
elements suitable for building a countrywide audio surveillance system, or to
conduct standalone tactical operations.

Audio is captured from a target location
by audio transmitters containing tiny
microphones, and transferred to the remote location site over a telephone
line.
Usually, a remote location site exists
near a location exchange. It contains a

ASN is the only
system of its kind that
offers real-time audio
surveillance from a number
of distant targets from beginning to end.

G O V E R N M E N T A L

S E C U R I T Y

S O L U T I O N S

A typical ASN layout consists of various
target locations, remote location sites,
central headquarter and a set of observer terminals.

large bank of receivers to collect
audio from various target locations.
The received audio channels are digitized and stored in a remote location server. The audio data is sent to the headquarters using a DSL or E1 link. The
headquarters stores digital audio coming from a number of remote locations in a huge database. Observer terminals access the headquarters
database using custom written audio
surveillance software. An ActiveX
based audio player offers audio analysis
capability and on-line comment tag
submission to the observers.

A typical ASN layout
elaman GmbH • German Security Solutions
Seitzstraße 23 • 80538 Munich • Germany
Tel: +49-89-24 20 91 80 • Fax: +49-89-24 20 91 81 • info@elaman.de • www.elaman.de
HRB München 153662 • Ust-IdNr.: DE814086265 • Geschäftsführer: Holger Rumscheidt

Newsletter 1/07
February 2007

2

this is the only way to
monitor the Thuraya network
without involvement of the service
providers.
Solutions are now on the market based
on this approach including the possibility to decrypt the intercepted Thuraya
calls in real time.

to discuss this in more details and also to provide
our full experience in configuring such a system.

The system layout depends on the individual requirements and also on the
foot print of Thuraya within the coverage area that should be monitored.

Newsletter 1/07

G O V E R N M E N T A L

S E C U R I T Y

S O L U T I O N S

February 2007

Monitoring System Thuraya
The huge success of Thuraya in the past
years and the continues growth of subscribers for various Thuraya services
(voice, Data, fax) makes the interception capability of the Thuraya network for
Law Enforcement Agencies more and
more to a vital factor.

Screenshot monitored Thuraya
activities incl. exact GPS positions

Especially the possibility of passive
monitoring of Thuraya is important as

Several system architectures are possible and we at Elaman would be glad

For further Information
please don‘t hesitate to
contact us at:
elaman GmbH
German Security
Solutions
Seitzstraße 23
80538 Munich
Germany
Tel: +49-89-24 20 91 80
Fax: +49-89-24 20 91 81
info@elaman.de
www.elaman.de
HRB München 153662
Ust-IdNr.: DE814086265
Geschäftsführer:
Holger Rumscheidt

3

