Newsletter 1/08

Please have a
look at our
new Website!
Now with the
newest
Information
to download!
www.elaman.de

April 2008

Elaman is a company backed by many years of experience in
technical intelligence techniques and equipment.
Elaman works exclusively on behalf of authorized
Government Security Departments and Law
Enforcement Agencies.
As a result of many years of “active
service” for clients worldwide,
Elaman’s assistance is highly
sought after.
Kind regards
Your Elaman
Team

Elaman‘s
Technical Surveillance Vans

G O V E R N M E N T A L

S E C U R I T Y

S O L U T I O N S

Surveillance and Command or Control Vehicle
General Overview
Elaman will individually design surveillance vehicles to your exact requirements, meeting with you at all
the major milestones during the design and integration process to ensure that each vehicle, not only meets
your current needs, but can also be
upgraded in line with future technological developments.
No two surveillance vehicles are alike.
These vehicles are especially designed to meet individual needs, such as,
vehicle type, finish, operational usage,
equipment for integration, etc.
Whatever you are looking for, from a
very basic surveillance, command or
communications vehicle, to a complete mobile command and control center, Elaman can provide a complete
design and integration service.

• Direction Finding
• Communications
• Remote Controlled Surveillance Vehicles
• Surveillance Vehicle Kits
• Specialist Audio Vans
• Communication Monitoring Vehicles

ISS Singapore 2008
ISS Singapore 9-11 June 2008:
For further information or an invitation to visit us at the ISS
Singapore, the world’s largest
gathering of Asia Pacific Telecom Operators, Law Enforcement, Intelligence and Defense
Analysts and network Intelligence gathering, contact us.
Important Dates
GPEC Munich, June 3 -5, 2008
ISS Singapore, June 9-11, 2008
Natia, San Jose, July 12-18, 2008
ISS Prague, October 1-3, 2008
Milipol, Doha, Nov. 17-19, 2008

Some examples of the equipment installed in our specialist surveillance
vehicles:
For perfect concealment and long range observation the Periscope is fitted
to the vehicle, combining the Ultra
Low Light Camera and the Zoom
Lens, thereby, achieving long range
observation.

The heart of the surveillance vehicle
is the Midas Command and Control
Software that enables the monitored media (audio/ video /data) to be
collated and transmitted fully encrypted to the HQ operation center.

The main control and recording equipment are housed in our custom built
rack unit to allow smooth operation
and ease of maintenance.

Video/Audio surveillance operations
(Analog/Digital) can be received and
recorded directly in the surveillance
van for further processing.

Elaman manufactures a wide range of
vehicles to suit every operation, built
to exacting standards and specifications:
• General Surveillance Vans
• Sprinter Surveillance Vans
• Surveillance Vans Satellite Transmission
• Command Surveillance Vehicles

elaman GmbH • German Security Solutions
Seitzstraße 23 • 80538 Munich • Germany
Tel: +49-89-24 20 91 80 • Fax: +49-89-24 20 91 81 • info@elaman.de • www.elaman.de
HRB München 153662 • Ust-IdNr.: DE814086265 • Geschäftsführer: Holger Rumscheidt

1

Pictures of
the equipment installed in our specialist
surveillance vehicles:

drive, plus three
roof heights for ultimate flexibility.

G O V E R N M E N T A L

S E C U R I T Y

S O L U T I O N S

GMC Savana
The 2007 GMC Savana Cargo
(GMC also refers to it as the "Work
Van") is a full-size van meant primarily
for commercial use.
The standard wheelbase (135-inch)
Savana comes in half-ton (1500), 3/4ton (2500) and 1-ton (3500) configurations, while the extended-wheelbase
version (155-inch) is available on the
2500 and 3500 series vans only.
Examples of Surveillance Vans Models
• Mercedes
• Ford
• Renault
• VW
• Toyota
• MB
• Nissan
• GM
Mercedes Sprinter
The Mercedes Sprinter range of vehicles comes in short wheelbase (SWB),
medium wheelbase (MWB) and long
wheelbase (LWB). There are also medium and high roof variations. Also
available as a chassis cab that can be
converted to a recovery truck are the
Luton van, flat bed drop-side, single or
three-way tipper, box van, horse box
or cherry picker. All Mercedes Sprinters have good towing capacity. There
is a choice of single or twin rear wheel
back axle for heavier loads.

Toyota Hiace
The Hiace is a strong, hardworking,
but stylish asset, offering a choice of
engine and equipment levels to meet
a wide range of commercial needs. In
addition, it offers impressive load capacity, complemented by the choice
of swing out rear doors or a two-stage
lifting tailgate on the GS grade.
Available in standard or long wheel-

Toyota Hiace

base it's
easy on the
driver and easy
on the budget.
Nissan
Distinctive and fresh in appearance, Nissan van drives
as well as it looks. With an intelligent cabin design, smart load
space, smooth driving performance,
it gives you something to look forward
to. It gives you all the cargo space you
need. With two lengths and heights to
choose from and a multitude of options,
it’s entirely adaptable to your business.

Ford Transit
The Ford Transit Van range has held
market leadership for over 40 years by
giving you real choice, so you can find
the perfect vehicle for your business
needs.
Depending on which model, the Transit Van offers short, medium or long
wheelbase and front or rear wheel

Newsletter 1/08
April 2008

2

