P2P Traffic Filter

CONFIDENTIAL

1

P2P TRAFFIC FILTER
This Unit is a filter for peer-to-peer (P2P) traffic. Detection of P2P traffic is based on protocol
signatures, which are updated on a regular basis. Compared to legacy port-based methods, the
number of mismatches is drastically reduced and thus the filtering does not interfere with
normal network usage. In addition to filtering P2P traffic additional communication methods like
Instant Messenger and VoIP can be filtered.

P2P traffic can be handled in several ways:
• Block: Blocking prevents any P2P communication taking place
• Shape: Shaping throttles P2P traffic to an acceptable rate. The throttling is invisible to
users of the network as file sharing applications continue to work as normal
• Bridge: All traffic is bridged transparently
• Statistics: Statistics of P2P usage are generated. This might be useful to get actual usage
data to specify the traffic shaping rules
These modes can be activated manually as well as on a configurable time schedule.
As the unit operates as a transparent bridge it appears completely invisible to normal network
users. Administration personnel can manage the system via a separate network interface.
An integrated hardware bypass is automatically enabled if the system loses its power
connection. Therefore, the deployment of the unit poses no negative impact on the reliability of
the network. The bypass can also be manually activated by the administrator.
Administration is done via an intuitive web interface. Besides configuration, it features detailed
graphical statistics on network utilization and P2P usage.
P2P protocols used by file sharing networks are subject to frequent changes with new
protocols appearing every few months. Only regular protocol signature updates can ensure the
filter’s effectiveness.
The maximum throughput is 1.6 Gbits/s. An entry level version with 350MBit/s throughput is
available as well.

CONFIDENTIAL

2

Screenshot Filtering Modes

Screenshot VoIP Configuration

Screenshot Instant Messenger Configuration

CONFIDENTIAL

3

SPECIFICATIONS:
PERFORMANCE:
Max. throughput:
1,600 Mbit/s (optional:
350 Mbit/s)
Max. packet rate:
240,000 packets/s
Network connections:
Bridge:
2x 10/100/1000Base-T with hardware bypass
Management:
1x 10/100/1000Base-T
Chaining:
1x 10/100/1000Base-T for joint management of multiple units

SUPPORTED PROTOCOLS:
P2P:
VoIP:
Instant Messenger:

Ares, Gnutella, AppleJuice, Fasttrack (Kazaa, Grokster, BitTorrent, iMesh,
Morpheus), DirectConnect, Soulseek, Edonkey, WinMX
SIP, Skype,
AIM (AOL), ICQ, MSN Messenger, Yahoo Messenger, IRC, Jabber

HARDWARE:
Form factor:
Width/height/depth:
Power supply:
Weight:
Console:
Network:

19" rack mountable, 1U
426 x 43.5 x 431.8 mm
ATX 250W
12 kg
serial DB-9 connector
4 x 10/100/1000Base-T (2 x bridge, 1 x management, 1 x chaining)

CONFIDENTIAL

4

CONFIDENTIAL

5

