Telephone Line Monitoring 
Zebra E1/T1 Gateway 

CONFIDENTIAL

1

Telephone line Monitoring Zebra E1-T1 Gateway
The Zebra E1/T1 gateway is designed to connect the Zebra monitoring centre system to E1/T1
telephony networks. It provides a highly dense connectivity solution: 64 E1/T1 carriers can be
intercepted in a single 1U 19” rack module. Used in conjunction with the Zebra monitoring
centre system, the Zebra gateway provides a very powerful telecommunications monitoring
solution.
Unlike general purpose media gateways and protocol converters, the Zebra gateway is
designed to support the requirements of communication monitoring. This allows the Zebra
monitoring centre system to support features that were not possible with the previous
generation of monitoring equipment, for example:
• The Zebra gateway and Zebra monitoring centre system can intercept 31 SS7 signaling
timeslots on every one of 64 E1 streams connected to the gateway. This is a total of 3
968 input signaling timeslots connected in a single 1U 19” rack module
• The Zebra gateway supports any combination of hyper channels (consecutive timeslots
used together to provide one bigger n x 64 kbps channel) together with E0/D0 (64 kbps)
channels on the same carrier
• The Zebra gateway supports channelized E1/T1 streams (unframed streams used as
primary rate bit streams)
• E1/T1, E0/DS0 channels, hyper channels and channelized primary rate carriers can be
mixed on the same gateway
• The Zebra E1/T1 gateway can be used in conjunction with other Zebra gateways (for
example: the Zebra STM1/OC3 gateway) in the same Zebra monitoring centre system
• The Zebra monitoring centre system reads data from the Zebra gateway over Ethernet,
allowing the processing of monitored streams to be farmed out to as many servers on the
network as required for the connected capacity. This allows a Zebra system to be scaled
up to an unprecedented capacity of thousands of E1/T1 carriers in a single system

CONFIDENTIAL

2

Specifications
Dimensions

The Zebra E1/T1 gateway is a 1U 19” rack module.

weight

8kg

Capacity

128 inputs providing for the monitoring of 64 E1/T1 carriers per gateway.
All the traffic offered on every connected E1/T1 carrier can be processed.

Carrier type
configuration

Each input can be individually configured as E1 or T1.

Channel
configuration

Any combination of signaling channels, bearer channels, hyper channels
and channelized primary rate may be configured.

Input signal
strength

0 to – 40dB

Termination and
connectivity

Input: 75 Ω, 100 Ωand 120Ω.
The Zebra E1/T1 gateway takes 16 input pairs on each of 8 DB44
connectors on the gateway's backplane, for a total of 128 input pairs.
We offer rack-mountable high-Z buffers with 8-pair Crone connection
blocks for termination of passively monitored live carriers.
Satellite and active inputs can be terminated directly in the Zebra
gateway.

LAN

1 Gbps Ethernet
Copper or fiber

AC power input

110V to 240V AC
Automatic switching

Redundant power
input

48V DC

Power
consumption

100W

VoIP

The Zebra gateway supports the interception of VoIP streams in hyper
channels or channelized primary rate.
Protocol processing is on open platforms.

ATM

Interception of ATM carried over E1/T1 is supported.
Protocol processing happens on open platforms.

CONFIDENTIAL

3

CONFIDENTIAL

4

