Telephone Line Monitoring 
Zebra E1/T1 

CONFIDENTIAL

1

Telephone line Monitoring Zebra E1-T1
The Zebra E1/T1 gateway is designed to
monitor up to 128 uni-directional E1/T1
inputs. Some applications require the Zebra
gateway to terminate the monitored E1/T1
inputs, for example: active connections to
switches (e.g.: ETSI LI) or in satellite
monitoring systems. Other applications
require the Zebra gateway to passively tap
carrier connections between switches. In
the second type of application it is
important to ensure that the Zebra gateway
remains invisible to the monitored network,
and that it never interferes with the signals
on the monitored carriers, for example:
when powering up or down.
The Zebra E1/T1 coupler is designed to connect large numbers of monitored carriers to the
Zebra E1/T1 gateway. Punch-down disconnection blocks provide a robust connection to the
input pairs as well as cable management. It is possible to connect to active carriers without
cutting the wires.
Optional hi-z buffering modules can be mounted behind the coupling modules. The function of
the hi-z buffer is to prevent signals from flowing from the Zebra gateway to the monitored
network. The hi-z buffer consists of a single printed circuit board with a smaller profile than the
coupling board. Hi-z buffering therefore does not require any additional rack space.
Disconnection tabs allow each block of 8 input pairs to be disconnected from the monitored
carriers.
When hi-z buffers are used an optional signal indication module can be fitted. One LED is
mounted above the disconnection block for each wire pair and indicates the signal status of that
monitored carrier pair, for example: active connection with no alarms – green; alarms present –
red; etc. The status indication module consists of a single printed circuit board mounted behind
the coupling and buffer modules. It has the same profile as the hi-z buffer board and requires no
additional rack space.
The Zebra E1/T1 coupler, hi-z buffer and signal status indication modules can be used
independently of the VASTech Zebra E1/T1 gateway.

CONFIDENTIAL

2

Specifications
Coupling module (can be used standalone)
Dimensions

Each complete 19” rack mount assembly consists of 2 brackets
with rod mounting profile and 2 carrier coupling modules. Height:
9U
Capacity and monitored 2 × 64 twisted pairs – equivalent to the full capacity of 128 E1
cable type
inputs of one Zebra gateway. A version for coaxial carrier inputs will
be available by 2007Q1
Connection blocks
Krone disconnection blocks. 8 pairs are connected on each block
Connection tool
Connectivity to gateway
Power

Krone insertion tool
For every 16 input pairs: 1 × DB44 male connector with 32 pins
connected
No power required

Buffer module (optional, requires coupling module)
Dimensions

Fits behind coupling module

Capacity

Same as coupling module

Carrier impedance

120Ω
Versions for 75Ω and 100Ω will be available by 2001Q1
Any signal flowing from the buffer to the monitored carrier will be
attenuated by at least 20dB
Each block of 8 input pairs can be disconnected from the monitored
network by the removal of a disconnection tab
No power required

Return signal
attenuation
Disconnection from
monitored carriers
Power

Signal status indication module (optional, requires coupling module)
Dimensions
Fits behind coupling module
Capacity

Same as coupling module

Power

1 × DIN rail-mounted 110V/240V transformer for each complete
assembly. Input current 0.75A

CONFIDENTIAL

3

CONFIDENTIAL

4

