Mobile Cargo and Vehicle
X-Ray Scanner
Model 7538

CONFIDENTIAL
– Subject
to change
withoutwithout
prior notice!
CONFIDENTIAL
– Subject
to change
prior notice!

1

MOBILE CARGO AND VEHICLE X-RAY SCANNER
The Mobile Scanner is a low-cost, extremely portable X-ray inspection system built
into a delivery van. With one-sided “backscatter-only imaging” and the option for
Radioactive Threat Detection (RTD), security officials can use the mobile scanner
for screening vehicles, sea containers and other cargo for terrorist threats and other contraband – simply by driving alongside the subjects. The mobile scanner employs Gamma’s patented Backscatter technology, which produces photo-like images of the contents of a container or vehicle, highlighting organic materials, such
as drugs or plastic explosives. The ZBV is an ideal security tool for urban policing
and homeland defense applications.

Product Highlights
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Backscatter-Only
One or two person operation
Simple operation, easy to use operator interface
Photo-like image quality for screening
Cost-effective (purchase, operation and maintenance)
Safe for operators and subjects
Option for Radioactive Threat Detection (RTD)

CONFIDENTIAL – Subject to change without prior notice!

2

Technical Overview
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Single-sided inspection, side set at factory
Backscatter-only
225 KeV source
Vehicle offerings:
USA—Daimler Chrysler Sprinter (Diesel)
International—Mercedes Sprinter (Diesel)
RTD Option
4 Scanning speeds
0.5, 1.5, 5 & 10 km/hr.
0.3, 1, 3 & 6 miles/hr.
Field of View: Height of 3.6 m (12 ft.) at
1.5 m (5 ft.) from the mobile scanner, coverage to ground
Image Display Features
High-Intensity LCD monitor (sunlight readable)
One-touch systems control (touch screen)
Central operator console in the mobile
scanner cab can be operated from driver or
passenger seat

CONFIDENTIAL – Subject to change without prior notice!

3

APPLICATIONS

•
•
•
•
•
•

Military Checkpoints/Embassies
Federal Policing Agencies
Local Law Enforcement
Commercial Event or Location
Management
Cargo Hubs
Border Crossings

CONFIDENTIAL – Subject to change without prior notice!

4

System Description:
The Z® Backscatter
Van™ (ZBV) is a lowcost, extremely mobile
X-ray inspection system
built into a commercially
available delivery van.
With one-sided backscatter-only imaging and
the option for Radioactive Threat Detection
(RTD), security officials
can use ZBV for screening vehicles, sea containers and other cargo for terrorist threats, trade fraud and other contraband –
simply by driving alongside the subjects. The ZBV employs Gamma’s patented Z®
Backscatter technology, which produces photo-like images of the contents of a
container or vehicle, highlighting organic materials, such as drugs and plastic explosives.

Features
The ZBV produces images of the contents of trucks, containers and automobiles
by combining a 225 keV X-ray source with a Flying Spot™ generator and photon
detectors. For drive-by, backscatter-only inspections, operators can select from
four speeds for accurate imaging: 0.5, 1.5, 5 and 10 km/hour (0.3, 1.0, 3, 6 mph)
With the operator control console and LCD display unit mounted in the cab of the
vehicle, the ZBV is designed for either one or two person operation, depending on
the user’s application
The system includes a generator that provides electrical power to the X-ray system and associated electronics. It is fed from the same fuel supply as the vehicle
engine (diesel)
At time of order, the system can be specified to scan from either side of the vehicle
The ZBV provides full scan coverage of a high cube container on a truck and provides useful images of stacked ISO containers
The ZBV provides an image of the target contents up to 3.6 meters (12 feet) in
height at a distance of 1.5 meters (5 feet) from the side of the ZBV or 4.3 meters
(14 feet) in height at a distance of 1.8 meters (6 feet). The ZBV is also capable of
providing useful images at distances up to 4.5 meters (15 feet)
The ZBV can reveal the contents of automobile trunks and bulk contraband concealed under the steel body of vehicles and within the steel walls of ISO containers
The ZBV presents an image of bulk organic material located behind 6 mm (0.25
inches) of steel when scanned from a distance of 1.5 meters (5 feet). The system
will provide visible differentiation between organic and inorganic materials
Resolution is 7 mm (0.28 inches), normal to the side of the ZBV at a distance of
1.5 meters (5 feet)
Use of the ZBV complies with the Container Security Initiative’s requirement for
Non-Intrusive Inspection

CONFIDENTIAL – Subject to change without prior notice!

5

 
 

Applications:
Checkpoints/Border crossings/Force Protection
Manifest verification/Cargo screening
Urban surveillance
 

Technical specifications
Image Display System

Operator s Console
Z® Backscatter Image is displayed on 15" LCD High-Intensity monitor (sunlight
readable)
Operator selected scan speed setting
Windows XP Operating System.
Display and X-ray system controls are conveniently mounted allowing one or two
person operation

Detection Capability
LCD display monitor clearly shows organic substances such as explosives, drugs,
and plastics. The display will also reveal concealed cargo behind false walls (such
as drugs) that does not match stated manifests.

Detection Options
Density Expand: Allows operator to control and continuously adjust the contrast
of the displayed image, thus enhancing the differences in objects.
Edge Enhancement: Accentuates the edges of objects in the image, helping the
operator to recognize objects faster and more readily.
Reverse Video: Allows the operator to display the normal, “positive” image or the
reverse black and white “negative” image, thereby enhancing subtle density differences.
Zoom: 2x, 3x, 4x magnification with the ability to roam continuously through full
field of view.
Pan & Scroll: Allows the operator to examine any part of the image at preset display magnifications.

Additional Features
Export Image: Provides capability to export “what-you-see is what-you-get” (WYSIWYG) images into .TIF/.JPEG formatted files.
Database function: Provides ability to create records relating to specific scans.
Save and Restore: Archival function to store or recall images from computer
based storage media.

CONFIDENTIAL – Subject to change without prior notice!

6

System Options
Harsh Environment
Radioactive Threat Detection (RTD)
Portal/Stationary Scan Mode
Remote Operator’s Console (Requires Portal Mode)
Shipping Tie Down D-rings
Low Suspension on Domestic Chassis

Operating Features
Vehicle: International — Mercedes Sprinter Model 416CDI 4 x 2 (diesel); USA —
Daimler-Chrysler Sprinter (diesel). Fuel used to run generators for X-ray equipment
will match fuel used in vehicle.
4 Scanning Speeds: 0.5, 1.5, 5 and 10 km/hr. (0.3, 1.0, 3, and 6 mph).
Scan Field of View: Height: 3.6 meters at 1.5 meters from side of vehicle.

Health and Safety
Dose to Cargo: Less than 0.04 micro Sievert (0.004 mR) per scan, average speed
5 km/hr (3 mph) at 1.0 meter (3 feet) distance.
Environmental/Operator Dose: Less than 1 micro Sievert (0.1 mR) per hour.

Environment
Temperature

Ambient Operating: 0°C to 42°C (32°F to 108°F).
Storage: -20°C to 60°C (-4°F to 140°F).
Humidity

10-95% relative humidity (non-condensing)

CONFIDENTIAL – Subject to change without prior notice!

7

CONFIDENTIAL – Subject to change without prior notice!

8

