GOVER N MEN TAL

SE CUR ITY

SOL UTIO NS

Product Information

TE 6303
Fibre Optic Microphones Kit

FIBRE OPTIC MICROPHONES KIT
TSE 6303 Optical microphone for surveillance operations and applications requiring
RFI/EMI immunity

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Undetectable by conventional means
EMI/RFI immunity
Ultra-sensitive microphone,
excellent sound accuracy
Miniature size, lightweight
Easy to conceal
Fiber length - up to 1 KM with minimal quality loss

The ultra-sensitive SOM optical microphone captures a range of sound from normal
conversation to soft whispering or the shuffling of papers with excellent sound accuracy.
The SOM is based on our unique optical sensor technology. A beam of light is sent
through an optical fiber to a sound sensitive membrane. Sound signals causes the
membrane to vibrate and modulate the intensity of the light reflected off the membrane,
which is then translated into an electrical signal.
The SOM delivers a high signal to noise (S/N) ratio, so even very low-level sound inputs
can be heard clearly and accurately from many meters away. With an omni-directional polar
pattern, the SOM can capture sound from all directions, thereby maximizing voice
representation. The SOM.s excellent frequency response provides true-to-source sound
reproduction.
The SOM cannot be detected by electromagnetic means, since the microphone head
neither contains metal parts nor generates electromagnetic fields and is separated from its
electronic components by many meters of optical fiber. With its miniature dimensions and
versatile configurations, the SOM can be installed in a variety of ways to elude discovery
both by the naked eye and sophisticated detection equipment such as non-linear junction
detectors. Because of its RFI and EMI immunity, the SOM can continue to operate even in
the harshest of environments, without any effect on its performance. These capabilities
and characteristics have made the SOM the microphone of choice among law
enforcement agencies.
CONFIDENTIAL

2

The SOM can be customized for your needs, with the following variables: fiber length, fiber
type, fiber color, and the head type. SOM Options include: Noise reduction software,
extension cable, SOM Extra with built in battery and volume control and recording device.
The SOM can be used for a variety of other applications, including RFI testing laboratories,
medical systems and monitoring sound in harsh environments.

TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
Polar Pattern

Omni-directional

Frequency Range*

250 - 4500 Hz

S/N Ratio*

67 dB(A) @ 1 KHz 94 dB SPL

Sensitivity*

200-850 mV/Pa

THD

<1% at 84 dB SPL

Max. Acoustic Pressure
Output Impedance

130 dB SPL
<100 Ω(standard line input)

Supply Voltage

9-12 V DC

Current Drain

80 mA

Operating Temperature

-20°C to +60°C

Humidity
MTBF
Standard Optical Fiber Length

Up to 95% R.H. @ 40°C
>100,000 hours
10 up to 1000 meter

Dimensions of Microphone Head
Dimensions of Extension Tube

Length - 16 mm Diameter - 6.0 mm Weight - 1 gram
Length - 6 mm Diameter -1.5 mm

*Configuration Dependent

CONFIDENTIAL

3

S OL UT I O N S
S ECU RITY
GOVE RNM E NTA L

If you would like further Information about ELAMAN,
or would like to discuss a specific requirement or project, please contact us at:
Elaman GmbH
German Security Solutions
Seitzstr. 23
80538 Munich
Germany
Tel: +49-89-24 20 91 80
Fax: +49-89-24 20 91 81
info@elaman.de
www.elaman.de

