GOVER N MEN TAL

SE CUR ITY

SOL UTIO NS

Product Information

TSE 6802
System Operation

TSE 6802

System Operation
The set is designated for a monophonic or stereophonic wireless audio signal transmission within 420
MHz band to a distance according to the transmitting power and field conditions. Due to digital
modulation, a better audio transmission quality is acquired during a weak signal in the noise threshold
in comparison with the analogue systems. The set is designed as a frequency tunable unit. In a case of
interference, it is possible to retune to another RF channel.
The transmission is continuous without amplitude modulation of the carrier. This limits the possibility of
undesired penetration of the signal into other electronic devices (e.g. car radio, walkman, etc.). During
interference, no characteristic audio effects occur, as known in e.g. mobile phones.
An unauthorized listening is practically eliminated by digital transmission, method of coding and
encryption. A regular AM or FM receiver indicates the signal as an increased level of noise only. A data
word of the encrypted audio signal does not contain any obvious signs such as e.g. start or stop bites,
which makes the possibility of undesired decoding far more difficult. An encryption table to the
individual transmitters is being designated during manufacturing.
The remote control takes place at the single frequency in the 150 MHz band, equal for all manufactured
transmitters. The desired transmitter is located by a digital code being transmitted at every command.
When the transmitter is controlled, it is identified by its assigned address, which is a number from 0 to
255.
For transmission of the remote control signals the same antennas are used like in case of an audio
signal transmission. Therefore, the equipment may simultaneously receive as well as transmit by a
single antenna on the transmitter and the receiver too. This is permitted by a frequency separator
installed in both devices.
On the transmitter, a filter has been mounted midway on the antenna in order to optimize it to the two
frequencies, Audio Signal Transmission and Remote Control respectively.

System Specifications
Audio bandwidth

300 Hz – 9 kHz (for decrease - 3dB)

Sampling frequency

20.306 kHz

Supporting information transfer

Transmitter battery voltage, table key

Audio-channel RF carrier

410 to 427 MHz (up to 64 channels)

Audio-channel modulation

FSK: Df ±38 kHz, 122kb/s (Mono)
Df ±53 kHz, 244kb/s (Stereo)

Audio-channel coding

100µs pre-emphasis, 8-bite quantization, digital compression to 5
Bites

Audio-channel encryption

32x32 fields binary table – no. of combinations: 2.6x1035

Remote control RF carrier

149.125MHz

Remote control modulation

FSK ±4 kHz, 2/1 asynchronous Manchester code

Transmitter identification

Address: 0 to 255 – transmitter serial number

CONFIDENTAL

page 2

Transmitting Units
LOKE STANDARD TRANSMITTER
Dynamics compressor
Rising time approx. 0.1 s, falling time approx. 4s
Switch-off time in VOX regime
13 seconds after acoustic stimulus dies away
Crosstalk between audiochannels 40 dB (depending on audio frequency)
RF power / DC consumption (typical values)

CONFIDENTAL

page 3

HI Power

300mW / 130mA - supply voltage 12V (max)
170mW / 95mA - supply voltage 6V
(nominal) 80mW / 90mA - supply voltage
3.6V (min)

LO Power

15mW / 54mA - supply voltage 12V (max)
12mW / 52mA - supply voltage 6V (nominal)
10mW / 50mA - supply voltage 3.6V (min)

Spurious RF products

< 40dBc (non harmonics)

VOX consumption

0.4mA - average value (without activation stimuli)

INACTIVE consumption

0.14mA - average value

Battery polarity reversal

Without any damage – protection by serial Schottky diode

Climate operating conditions

-10°C to +60°C / 14F to 140F, humid environment

Dimensions

57.5x29.5x8 mm / 2.2x1.1 x0.3 inches

After connection to a supply the transmitter will switch into an initial start mode. Change of this setting
will be made by a remote control on the receiver side.
Antenna - Since the antenna's quality basically influences the real emitted RF power, a special whip
antenna made of two insulated conductors 17 cm long with a filter between is recommended. It must
be pulled straight forward in the direction from the antenna transmitter pin. Open space around the
antenna is recommended for the best RF radiation. Other conductors connected to the transmitter
(microphones, batteries) must be directed to the opposite side of the antenna in order to establish a
suitable balance to the antenna itself. Under hard conditions (e.g. on a human body) it is necessary to
experimentally set the antenna.
Supply voltage - A maximum allowed value is 12V. The minimum value to keep the internal stabilizer
functional may not drop below 3.6V. A recommended voltage is 6V (2 x lithium battery cells), at which
the transmitter reaches the best efficiency (i.e. ratio of RF power / DC consumption). On the contrary,
the maximum emitted RF power (regardless of the efficiency) is reached under a supply voltage up to
12V. For installation of the transmitter in a car it is necessary to implement a stabilizer. A random
polarity reversal of the supply voltage is being treated and does not lead to any destructive
consequences.

CONFIDENTAL

page 4

Loke High Power Transmitter – 2W

Stereo inputs:
I

Audio line 0.7V (ef)
Microphone (electret, 3V bias
ntroduced through 4.7kW resistor)

Digital input/output:

TTL audio signal data stream input
TTL remote control signal output

Dynamics compressor:

Rise time 0.1s (approx.), fall time 4s (approx.)

Switch-off time in VOX mode:

13 seconds after acoustic stimulus or data stream dying
down

RF power:
Spurious RF products:

HI Power: 2.5W
LO Power: 0.2W
< 55dBc (non-harmonic components)
< 60dBc (harmonic components)

Supply:

+12V (min. 8V, max. 15V) / max.
0.8A – DC/DC converter used

Reversal of battery poles:

Without transmitter damage –
serial Schottky diode protection

Climatic operating conditions:

-10 to +60°C, humid
Environment

Size:

100×51×39mm / 3.9x2.0x1.5 inches

After connection to a supply the transmitter will switch into an initial start mode. Change of this setting
will be made by a remote control on the receiver side.
Microphone inputs – The connector is wired by standard method, similarly as, e.g. any microphone
input in the computer audio adapter. Herein the DC bias is introduced for the microphones supplying.
This is equipped for two wires microphone connection.

CONFIDENTAL

page 5

Line input – It is being utilized for processing the signal of a standardized line level from other audio
devices, e.g. various recording instruments, etc.
Digital input/output – This connector is being utilized for the direct data interconnection with the
LOKE receiver and this way a repeater station may be created.
Output cascade may be remote switched either to high or low power. This power is internally
stabilized so it does not depend on the supply voltage. It changes only during channel retuning. It is
slightly decreasing on higher channels.
Antenna – A mobile two-band or a special two-band whip antenna has to be connected to the
transmitter. We recommend the same mobile antenna with magnetic base as that one delivered with
the receiver. The role of output cascade protection circuits is to prevent the output cascade destruction
in case of antenna disconnection. Regardless, we recommend avoid the transmitter operation without
the antenna connected.
Supply voltage – The maximum allowed operating supply voltage value is 15V, the minimum one,
under which the internal stabilizer not operate, is approx. 8V. The switched DC/DC converter holding
stable operation conditions in the mentioned supply range is used in the transmitter. It is necessary to
realize the maximal current consumption from the power supply occurs in case of minimum operating
voltage due to this circuit influence!!!
Cooling – The transmitter consumption from the power supply may be up to 10W and most part of
this power converts to heat energy. Therefore sufficient transmitter packet cooling has to be ensured.
We do not recommend placing the transmitter to confined areas without sufficient air circulation and
other extraction of radiated heat energy.
Accidental reversal of source poles is treated and it has no destructive consequences.

Receiving Unit
Receiver sensitivity

1 µV (Mono), 1.5µV (Stereo) - listening without noticeable defects
0.8µV (Mono); 1.2µV (Stereo) - good speech intelligibility
0.5µV (Mono), 0.8µV (Stereo) - listening on the edge of intelligibility

RF signal processing

Double mixing, 1.MF=159.825MHz, 2.MF=10.7MHz, PLL detector

S-meter

Displayed value from 0 up to 100 (see the picture below this table)

Data synchronization

Bites - hardware PLL Frames - to maximum average of parity

Synchronization time

< 0.1 s

Noise squelch

After data stream loss, No noise

Receiver digital output

TTL, updated copy of received data for retransmission

Receiver line output

0.7V

Receiver repro output

4W, 1 W

Remote control RF power

0.7 W (according to battery voltage, external source, resp.)

External source voltage

12V nom. (8V min., 15V max.)

Current consumption:

110 mA from external power supply (+50mA – display backlighting)
200 mA from internal 3V battery (+90mA – display backlighting)

Internal battery

2 x AA

CONFIDENTAL

page 6

Receiving operating period
Ext. source polarity reversal

Up to 10 hours depending on battery quality and use of remote
control command (without display backlight)
May lead to a damage - not permitted!

Int. battery polarity reversal

May lead to a damage - not permitted!

Climatic oper. Conditions

-10°C to +60°C / 14F to 140F, internal environment without
Humidity

Dimensions

205x95x40mm / 8.1x3.7x1.5 inches (without connectors)

Device switch-on is done by pushing the green button referred to as POWER. Switch off is done by
holding this push button down a little longer. After the device is switched off, you must allow at least 5
seconds or longer before switching on again. When switched on, a status is displayed showing the
data, which appeared before the device was switched off.
Display lighting - is always activated for a period of 5 seconds from the time of switching on. After
this period has passed the display lighting is automatically turned off. A permanent lighting of the
display may be activated and deactivated by using the LIGHT push button.
Encryption table – 32 x 32 fields binary table – number of combinations 2.6 x 1035
Sound volume in speakers or earphones is selected by VOLUME push buttons. During the time they
are pushed down numerical information about the sound volume appears on the display on the right
upper side instead of an internal battery voltage.
CONFIDENTAL

page 7

Remote control function - Push buttons on the keypad are limited by a darker field. Their immediate
status is shown on the display. A flashing COMMAND sign on the upper left side indicates the display
initial command regime. Terms of the remote control status push buttons.
MONO / STEREO

Switches between one - and two channel transmission.

HI POW / LO POW

High or Low RF power of the audio-transmitter.

VOX / CONT

Voice activation (VOX) or permanent transmission (CONT).

ADDRESS

Particular serial number of the transmitter that to be controlled.

CHANNEL

Immediate tuning of the receiver to a selected channel,
which shall also be transferred by command into the audiotransmitter.

All push buttons in a dark field on the keypad are only "status-displayed" - they have no influence until
the command ACT or DEACT push buttons are used, when the factual transmission of a remote control
command only occurs. The exception is the CHANNEL push button that is also used to select an
immediate choice of the channel being received. It is necessary to note that by switching over the
MONO-STEREO, only the signal processing on the audio transmitting side is directly being controlled.
The receiver automatically recognizes the type of signal being received at the time, regardless of
immediate position of the command push button. This is important if the signal from one audio
transmitter is being simultaneously listening to at more receivers.
Antenna - A mobile two-band antenna radiator, and a two–band whip antenna is being delivered as
part of the set. The mobile antenna has a gain of approx. 0 dB within 150 MHz band (remote control),
and about 3 dB gain within 420 MHz band (audio-signal). For its proper tuning, the antenna requires a
conducting fundamental base (e.g. car roof)! It can be installed on a magnetic or solid automobile holder
delivered as a component of the set. The antenna must be located on the car roof in a vertical position.
The RF coaxial cable coming to the receiver must be as short as possible to avoid any unnecessary
signal loss.
Antenna input / output - A signal captured by the antenna is being directed to the receiver input. At
the receiver supplying circuit, limiting elements are used so that a random antenna connector short
circuit has no destructive effects (only 12mA short-circuit current). Due to a dual-direction utilization of
the antenna, it is impossible to use regular amplifiers. A special type with a frequency splitter is
necessary to be used that can be developed upon request only by the set manufacturer.
Digital input / output - The receiving block is equipped with a connector for dual direction of serial
data transmissions for the purposes of potential RF retransmissions, should this option be required in
the future. At present this connector is only equipped with an output for timely updated copies of the
data received.
Audio output - An audio-signal of 0.7V nominal effective voltage may be connect e.g. to a recording
equipment. This line outlet is on a constant level and not influenced by adjustable volume of sound.
Speakers, earphones - An outlet from the terminal sound amplifier. A speaker with 4 up to 8~
impedance or regular Low-Ohm earphones may be connected. The audio-signal level is controlled by
VOLUME push buttons.

CONFIDENTAL

page 8

Batteries – The unit is supplied by 2 AA cells. By choosing high quality batteries like Duracell Ultra M3,
the receiver will be able to operate up to 10 hours (with a limited use of the remote control functions).
The batteries will be electronically disconnected if an external power supply is used.

External supply voltage - The maximum allowed voltage value is 15V and the minimum is 8V. A direct
connection to an automobile board DC-network is possible if the alternator-regulator system of the
vehicle is in good condition and the car battery contacts are in properly functioning. We recommend
first to measure a maximum voltage of the car DC-network when the car is running so the limit values
are not exceeded.

Antenna Filter (Diplexer) (For repeater function only)
Specification – type R:
Through attenuation:
Undesired channels suppression:
Specification – type T:
Through attenuation:
Undesired channels suppression:

1.5dB within 150MHz band (remote control)
2.5dB in channels 0 to 9
>45 dB in channels 54 – 63
1.5dB within 150MHz band (remote control) 2.5dB in
channels 54 to 63
>45dB in channels 0 to 9

CONFIDENTAL

page 9

In a repeater unit the filter is being utilized for preventing of a strong signal penetration back to the
receiver. It comprises the combination of a band pass and band-stop filters and is precisely tuned up to
required channels. This filter has to be installed in the repeater unit both on the transmitting and
receiving sides. By reason of easy recognition the filter is marked by the letter "R" = receiving, or "T" =
transmitting.

Recommend Operational Procedures
Push the CHANNEL buttons to find a free RF channel where no interference (jamming) is present (Smeter indicates low numerical values). An option of automatic channel selection may be utilized:
By simultaneously pushing both CHANNEL buttons, the band scanning is initiated. After 5 seconds the
channel with the minimal interference will be founded automatically. However, for proper results it is
necessary for the audio transmitter to be inactive (not transmitting), because its signal should not
influence the scanning result. It is also necessary to notice that PC’s standing too close to the scene
usually jam all the bands!

CONFIDENTAL

page 10

To set further regime-parameters require using push buttons in the darker field on the keypad
(ADDRESS, MONO-STEREO, HIPOW-LOPOW, VOXCONT)
Via these regime-parameters the transmitter is activated by pushing the ACT button. WARNING (!!!) After every change of the regime-parameters it is necessary to execute the activation (update) again by
using the ACT push button in order to transfer the changes transferred to the audio transmitter. The
transfer of one command takes 0.5 second, following which a test of valid response is immediately
performed on the receiver side. The acceptance of response takes about 0.2 second, and during this
time the receiver audio output is being blocked. If the response is not valid, the command transmit is
automatically repeated. However, not more than 4 times. The number of commands transmitted per
minute in average is also limited by the software in order to avoid the terminal RF amplifier overheating.
If the command transfers were completed successfully, the audio transmitter battery voltage is
displayed on the upper left side. After a moment this information is modified to ACTIVE. This sign
informs the user that the audio transmitter has recorded this setting indicated on the display in its
memory. If the successful transfer is not confirmed, a flashing COMMAND sign reappears on the
display informing the user that the command has not been successfully accepted, and that the status
indicated on the display has not been transferred to the audio transmitter. After the command
acceptance is successfully completed, the update of current encryption table in the receiver is also
performed (if authorization assigned by Gamma).
If the remote transmitter was activated in a VOX regime, then after 13 seconds it gets put in an idle
(sleeping) regime (refer to hereunder), from which it may be made awake either by an acoustic impulse
or new remote control command.
A de-activation of the audio transmitter from operation is made possible by pushing a DEACT button. If
the transfer was successfully completed, the display indicates the audio transmitter battery voltage at
its left upper section.
Note that you may need a distance of min. 5 meters between receiver and
transmitter in order to avoid potential jamming.

Operation in Repeater Mode
The principle is the signal reception on one channel and its repeated transmission on the other one.
This mode is favorable in cases when no direct connection between the transmission and receiving
sites exists; however, a third one is available with connection to the both terminal sites. Usually, it is
located at some uphill place were so called "repeater point" can be built.
Based on customer's request the repeater station was developed that transfers a digital data directly
(thus without voice quality loss), inclusive a remote control command repeater. In order to remove
necessity to invest resources to other special unit purchase the concept was selected utilizing the
existing receiver and LOKE Power transmitter. A digital line according to the diagram will interconnect
both of these units and this way the repeater station will be created.
The first (primary) radio route segment has always been tuned up to anyone of channels nr. 0 to 9. The
second (secondary) segment is always bound with the primary segment by a 54-channel bounce up, so
it operates on channels nr. 54 to 63. The special set of arrow separated channel pairs is reserved on
the receiver display for this reason. The number on arrow's left means the primary route segment
channel. The arrow indicates the signal transfer direction. Thereafter, the secondary route channel
number is displayed on arrow's right.
In order to ensure the entire system operation without the repeater station receiver input congestion by
the own transmitter it is necessary to use antenna filters suppressing this signal. At the same time,
both repeater station antennas have to be sufficiently spaced. We recommend 2m and more. System
software is designed so that the repeater station is remote controlled and it has also its own address
alike every other LOKE Transmitter.

CONFIDENTAL

page 11

For this reason, it is necessary to set the address equal with the own transmitter on the repeater
receiver (!!!). Only this way the both units will correctly respond
to the remote control commands and will mutually co-operate.
After an addressable reception of a valid command for the repeater station the last will be automatically
set out. However, after the reception of a command with any other address than the one of the
repeater station the command will be modified and sent once again (repeated) provided the originally
received command contained the channel pair. The repeater does not response to the commands with
omitted channel pair.

Repeater Set-Up
(See figure on next page)
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.

Connect RX 1 and High power TX with mini jack mini jack cable
Connect filter “T” to High power TX. Connect antenna to filter “T”
Connect power supply to High power TX and the battery to Standard TX.
Connect filter “R” to RX 1. Connect antenna to filter “R”
Switch on the RX 1. Set the address so it corresponds to the address engraved on the
backside of the High power TX.
Switch on the RX 2. Set the channel between 0 – 54 and 9 – 63. Choose the channel with the
lowest signal / noise “sig”.
Set the RX 2 address so it corresponds to the High power address (see item 5)
Set the RX 2 to the wanted settings for the Hi Power TX :VOX/CONT, MONO/STEREO, HI
POW/LO POW
IMPORTANT: press “ACT”
The RX 2 will deliver 2 beeps if above has been carried out correctly.
Set the RX 2 address so it corresponds to the address engraved on the backside of the
Standard TX.
Set the RX 2 to the wanted settings for the Standard TX: VOX/CONT, MONO/STEREO, HI
POW/LO POW
Press “ACT”.

CONFIDENTAL

page 12

CONFIDENTAL

page 13

Notes
Working Temperature
LOKE is being set-up and adjusted at Gamma’s premises under room temperature for which the
specifications are referred to in the introduction. Although LOKE is constructed for operations in
increased working temperature ranges, the temperature changes can cause the transmission
specifications to get slightly worse. In order to accomplish the best possible results, it is recommended
to place the receiver in a room temperature environment.
Interference (Jamming)
In the 410 to 427 MHz bands, a number of various services are available. Therefore, it is bilaterally
beneficial to work only at channels determined by the user to be long-term unoccupied within the given
territory (look at the frequency table). It was further discovered in practice that a very strong
interference is caused by personal computers. It is necessary to avoid their existence in the receiving
location.
Unfavorable Conditions of Radio Signal Transmission
Although a suitable location was successfully found for the antenna in order to ensure a clear receiving,
it does not mean that the situation will not change. A multi-direction propagation with a lot of echoes is
an event that changes in time. It is necessary to realize that any, even minor, changes in a path of the
signal reaching a dimension of the wavelength are already noticeable. This regards e.g. movement of
vehicles on the road, but also movement of trees in wind, persons and objects in the room, etc.
The fact that this regards just this type of receiving with a number of echoes, the user of LOKE set
finds out so that, when the transmitter is being retuned between 0 up to 63 channels, the receiving
intensity substantially fluctuates. Strong minimums and maximums of the signal being received are
considerable. For a short-term activity this phenomenon can even be used as an advantage if the user
chooses a channel at which, due to echoes, the receiving is the strongest. However, such case is a
consequence of multidirection radio-waves propagation, and, therefore, in time a long-term nonstability
in reception quality can be expected.
Warranty
The warranty period is 12 months from date of expedition. During this period Gamma will provide free
repair of failures (particularly caused by defects of materials). Only Gamma is authorized to make any
repairs and maintenance.
Warranty is not valid when any of the below mentioned event occurs:
1. Damage caused by a regular wear
2. Damage during transportation
3. Damage due to improper storage environment
4. Malfunction caused by any overloading applied to the device (high temperature, high voltage, high
power, short-circuit, etc.)
5. Destruction caused by water, chemicals, fire, natural disaster, etc.
6. Crackdown b unauthorized personnel
7. Improper attendance in conflict with User Manual

CONFIDENTAL

page 14

S OL UT I O N S
S ECU RITY
GOVE RNM E NTA L

If you would like further Information about ELAMAN,
or would like to discuss a specific requirement or project, please contact us at:
Elaman GmbH
German Security Solutions
Seitzstr. 23
80538 Munich
Germany
Tel: +49-89-24 20 91 80
Fax: +49-89-24 20 91 81
info@elaman.de
www.elaman.de

