VTS

Vehicle Tracking Systems

TSU INDEX
Vehicle Tracking Systems
Ref

Number

Description

1

7301

Vehicle Tracking System with Magnet Base

2

7302

GPS Vehicle Tracking System

3

7303

Vehicle Tracking Management Software

4

7304

Container Tracking System

5

7305

Tracking via SMS Finder

6

7306

BTS Cell Site Information Software

7

7307

Covert RF/GPS Vehicle Tracking System

8

7308

Covert RF/GSM/GPRS/GPS Vehicle Tracking System

VEHICLE TRACKING SYSTEM
WITH MAGNET BASE

Model 7301

Model 7301 is a professional GPS location system for monitoring and tracking of uncooperative
target vehicles.
The development of the Model 7301 was the result of a cooperative effort between Elaman
and members of the intelligence community. Utilizing tracking system design and
manufacturing experience, Elaman developed the Model 7301 based on requirements from real
world intelligence professionals, for a system with a rapid deployment capability. The result
was a complete, highly flexible system with a wide range of options for the collection,
transmission and electronic map display of geographic position data that can be installed quickly
and covertly.
The system consists of:
• The Model 7301 remote unit is a self-contained tagging
device. It has a magnetic mount for fast and easy
installation. The internal and not rechargeable high
capacity battery, combined with the low power
consumption of the remote unit, supports extended
deployments without operator intervention. The Model
7301 remote unit can store up to 300,000 positions
between downloads.
• The 7301 Management Software interface provides control of the following Model 7301
remote unit functions:
• Localization - real-time reporting or historical log download of geographic position via GSM
or GPRS
• SMS transmission - time schedule, time intervals or alarm activation for reporting of the
geographic position via SMS to a mobile phone or a PC with a GSM wireless modem card
enabled for SMS
• Low Power Consumption – Motion Sensor
The 7301 Management Software stores the information sent from the Model 7301 remote unit
and manages the display of data seamlessly on raster, MaPoint maps or Google Earth.

FEATURES:
• separate power supply for GSM and GPS modules: the remote unit can get points
according to parameters chosen by the user and keeps the GSM module off, thus
prolonging battery life
• alarm loss GPS position: in case of lack of GPS position after a certain chosen time, the
device sends an alarm SMS with the last fixed position
• sends GSM position: in case of lack of GPS signal and with a movement the device sends
an SMS with the information regarding the primary GSM cell to which it is registered
• SMS sending to two different SIM numbers: the information can be sent to two preset
GSM numbers
• forced wake up: it is possible to keep the unit in a dormant status to conserve the battery
and it is possible to set a forced wake up cyclically or one shot
• geo fence: it is possible to manage two independent rectangular areas. Entering or exiting
from an area generates an SMS to the preset GSM numbers

1

VEHICLE TRACKING SYSTEM
WITH MAGNET BASE

Model 7301

MODEL 7301 REMOTE UNIT WITH NON-RECHARGEABLE BATTERY
GPS receiver with memory and digital data transmission through GSM modem 900/1800,
850/1900 or GPRS
power supply

3.6 V dc
5 V – 36 V with Model 7301
Interface

memory

300.000 points

acquisition modes

time or space

GPS received channels

16

high capacity battery (not
rechargeable)

SAFT LSH 20 13.0 Ah

weight (g) without magnetic base
and battery

140

dimensions (mm)

85 x 38 x 47

(Li-SOCI2) D Size cell

MODEL 7301 INTERFACE FOR DOWNLOADING TO A PC AND CONNECTION FOR
AN EXTERNAL POWER SUPPLY
power supply

4.75÷35 V d

output

USB

dimensions (mm)

85 x 38 x 11

MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE
Compatible with Windows 2000/XP
•
•
•
•
•

developed for Windows 2000/XP
management of all models of Elaman's remote units
management of a remote unit book, with different settings for each remote unit
total control of remote unit functions
usage of different communication channels (serial cable, GSM-data)
Model 7301 Software
license - dongle for
serial port

Model 7301 Software
license - dongle for
USB port

2

GPS VEHICLE TRACKING SYSTEM

Model 7302

The Model 7302 is a covert real-time tracking, locating and monitoring system for uncooperative
mobile targets. The Model 7302 is the newest revolutionary advancement in the well
established line of Elaman Tracking Systems. The Model 7302 is the result of a cooperative
effort utilizing the extensive design and manufacturing experience of Elaman and the real world
knowledge of intelligence professionals. It is a complete, extremely flexible system with a wide
range of options for the collection, transmission and electronic map display of geographic
position data.
The system consists of:

•

The Model 7302 remote unit, which is concealed
on or inside the target vehicle. The Model 7302
includes a connection for two remotely selectable
microphones for audio monitoring that can be
hidden in different areas inside the vehicle. It
communicates with the monitoring station over the
cellular network (GSM/GPRS or CDMA). The Model
7302 built-in memory stores up to 300,000
positions, which provide a downloadable historical
tracking record in situations when real-time
communication is not possible.
The 7302 Management Software interface can set the following Model 7302 remote unit
operating options via the cellular link:
• Call type – select between the voice, data or GPRS communications modes
• Audio monitoring – enable/disable and control audio monitoring of target vehicle
• Localization – control the real-time or historical download of geographical position data via
GSM/GPRS or CDMA communications link
• Alarm activation – set movement, VOX, entrance/exit from a predefined area (geo-fence),
digital commands, device operating conditions
• SMS transmission – set a time schedule, timed interval cycle or alarm activation condition
for reporting the geographical position to a mobile phone or to a PC with a GSM or CDMA
wireless modem card enabled for SMS
• Energy saving – utilization of special hibernation states, and programming the remote unit
to turn on and off at specific times or for alarm events

TECHNICAL FEATURES
MODEL 7302 REMOTE UNIT
GPS receiver, track memory and data transmission via the GSM 900/1800, GSM 850/1900,
GPRS or a CDMA network, as specified at time of order
power supply

4.75÷35 V dc

consumption

fFrom 70 microA to 200mA @ 12V

memory

300.000 points

acquisition period

1 sec to 18 hours

digital & analog input and output

5

GPS received channels

16

1

GPS VEHICLE TRACKING SYSTEM
audio microphones

2 mono, remotely selectable

Weight (gr). with magnetic base

280

Weight (gr). without magnetic base

100

dimensions (mm)

135 x 50 x 14

Model 7302

MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE
Compatible with Windows 2000/XP or higher
•
•
•
•
•

developed for Windows 2000/XP
management of remote units
management of a remote unit book
total control of remote unit functions
usage of different communication channels (serial cable, GSM–data, GSM-voice, GPRS,
radio)
• management of database recorded tracks, with time-base analysis

Model 7302 Software
license - dongle for
serial port

Model 7302 Software
license - dongle for
USB port

COMPUTER NOTEBOOK
Features
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Screen: 10.4” XGA (1024 x 768 Pixel)
Intel Pentium M (753)
CPU – 1100 MHz
RAM: 512/ Max
RAM: 1024 MB
HDD: 40 GB
DVD/CD-RW Combo
Graphic Card: Intel 855 GM
Graphics memory: Shared Memory
Slot Extension: PC- Card Type I
PCMCIA SM Modem
Pre installing of client SW

Accessories
• MS02 – Magnetic mount for the 7302
remote unit
• PK01- Rechargeable external battery
pack with magnetic mount
• DP - Dual port PCMCIA adaptor for
Notebook PC
• PM GSM - PCMCIA GSM modem for
Notebook PC

2

VEHICLE TRACKING
MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE

Model 7303

MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE
Compatible with Windows 2000/XP
• Developed for Windows 2000/XP
• Management of all models of Elaman's remote units
• Management of a remote unit book, with different settings for each remote unit
• Total control of remote unit functions
• Usage of different communication channels (serial cable, GSM-data)
• Management of database recorded tracks, with time base analysis
• Compatible cartography: raster maps and vectorial Windows MapPoint based maps
• Internal software able to georeference raster maps
• Possibility to use Divitech maps
• Possibility to load raster maps format GEOTIFF
• Integration with Google Earth - it is possible to visualize the fix in real-time and the
downloaded tracks on the maps of web tool Google Earth

1

CONTAINER TRACKING SYSTEM

Model 7304

Model 7304 is a professional GPS tracking system designed for covert deployment on a cargo
shipping container. The physical appearance of the unit remote’s steel case resembles the
undulations of a cargo container. The Model 7304 remote unit is designed to be welded onto
the shipping container so that the container can be tracked during transport. The Model 7304
remote is a stand alone unit that can be used to monitor the movement of goods transported in
a shipping container by truck, rail or sea. The
unit communicates with the monitoring station,
via the GSM network, to provide both
geographic position data and audio surveillance
capability. If the container moves to an area
without GSM coverage, the remote unit stores
up to 300,000 geographic positions, which can
be downloaded when communications are reestablished.
The system consists of:

• The Model 7304 remote unit composed of a sealed steel case with 4 individually selectable
microphones – one on each side. The remote unit has a rechargeable battery and a
magnetically activated power on/off switch

• The Management Software interface provides control of the following Model 7304 remote
unit functions:
• Call – via the data channel of the GSM network
• Localization - real-time reporting or historical log download of geographic position via GSM
network
• SMS transmission - time schedule, time intervals or alarm activation for reporting of the
geographic position via SMS to a mobile phone or a PC with a GSM wireless modem card
enabled for SMS
• Energy saving – utilizing special hibernation states and programming the remote unit to
turn on and off at specific times and events
The Management Software stores the information sent from the Model 7304 remote unit and
manages the display of data seamlessly on raster, MaPoint maps or Google Earth.
The Management Software programs the functions of the remote unit, has the flexibility to
handle the varied needs of different customers, and is password protected to prevent
unauthorized use.

1

CONTAINER TRACKING SYSTEM

Model 7304

MODEL 7304 REMOTE UNIT
GPS receiver with memory and digital data transmission using an internal GSM modem (either
a 900/1800 MHz or 850/1900 MHz)
power supply

in-built battery

consumption

from 70 microA to 400mA @7.2 V

memory

300,000 points

acquisition modes

1 sec. to 18 hours

GPS received channels

16

audio microphone

4 mono, remotely selectable

MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE
Compatible with Windows 2000/XP
• developed for Windows 2000/XP
• management of all models of Elaman's remote units
• management of a remote unit book, with different settings for each remote unit
• total control of remote unit functions
• usage of different communication channels (serial cable, GSM - data)
• management of database recorded tracks, with time-base analysis
• compatible cartography: Raster maps and vectorial windows MapPoint based maps
• internal software able to georeference raster maps (settable by customer)
• possibility of using topographic and professional aerial photos
• possibility of using third party cartography software to receive GPS data
Model
7304
Software
license - dongle for serial
port

Model
7304
Software
license - dongle for USB
port

2

TRACKING VIA SMS FINDER

Model 7305

Elaman is proud to introduce a new generation of GSM tracking systems with the Model 7305,
a versatile tool with a wide range of audio monitoring and tracking application possibilities:
• it can easily be hidden virtually anywhere, or on anything,
and can communicate its position via the GSM network to
the monitoring station, which provides a display of its
location on dedicated maps
• it is equipped with a variable gain microphone for audio
monitoring in situations where it is not possible to use
conventional RF transmitters
• Its operating configuration is programmed using SMS messages. There are many
functions that can be programmed, including alerting the monitoring station when the unit
has entered a predefined area and audio monitoring control
• It also includes a micro switch, which when pressed, initiates a call to a previously
designated phone number that can also be used as a duress alert.
The device has been totally redesigned using the latest generation components to provide
major performance enhancements:
• Quadriband: The new GSM module allows Model 7305 to operate on 850, 900, 1800 and
1900 MHz frequency bands, enlarging its use to several countries
• Half dimensions: the already compact dimensions of the previous version of Model 7305
have been reduced almost by half, enabling easier concealment
• Reduced power consumption: the stand by power consumption has been reduced by a
factor of 10 to provide a longer battery life

1

TRACKING VIA SMS FINDER

Model 7305

TECHNICAL FEATURES
compatibility

GSM 850/900/1800/1900

power supply

3,6÷4,5 V

microphone

one, with sensitivity adjustment

stand-by consumption

0,3 mA @ 3,6 V (with inside motion sensor)

digital outputs actionable with SMS

2

external input

1

weight (gr)

25

dimensions (mm) without antenna and
power supply cables

45 x 35 x 8

VISUALIZATION
The information on the target location sent by the Model 7305 can be processed and reported
on maps using SMS Machine software, which displays the area associated with the BTS(s),
where the device is located (Time Advance location estimation).
When no database of the BTS position is available, it is possible to create the GSM map of an
area using the BTS cell information software, thus tracking targets without GPS availability.
BTS cell information software is a useful tool for all customers who use the Model 7305 for the
GSM tracking because it provides more precise target localization than Time Advance
estimation alone can.
The BTS cell information software system is composed of a collector unit, which acquires the
GPS positions for an area and then correlates them to those of the BTS sites of the different
provider, and by a software that
manages the download of the
collector
unit,
processes
the
recorded data and generates a
database for display of the surveyed
locations on the appropriate map.
The information sent by the Model
7305 is compared with data stored
in the database and the most likely
target positions are visualized on the
mapping display.
When the BTS location database is
available from the service provider,
the estimated target location area,
based on Time Advance, is also
displayed.

2

BTS CELL SITE INFORMATION SOFTWARE

Model 7306

The BTS cell site information software is a new system that allows the GSM map of an area to
be created, thus tracking targets without a GPS localizer.
The system is composed of:
• The collector unit that acquires the GPS information of an area
and correlates it to those of the BTS sites of the different local
providers
• The software, to manage the unit to download the recorded data
and show it on the map.

OPERATING MODE
During the survey phase, the collector unit records a set of information about the main BTS to
which it is registered and of its adjacent cells.
The unit acquires one provider at a time, according to the SIM card installed.
The recorded data is downloaded on the PC via a serial cable and managed by a flexible and
reliable database (PostgreSQL extension GIS).
The information sent by the SMS finder is compared with that stored in the database and the
most likely target position is visualized on the mapping display.
When the BTS location database is available from the service provider, the possible target
location area based on Time Advance is also displayed.

1

COVERT RF & GPS
VEHICLE TRACKING SYSTEM

Model 7307

The unit is an RF tracking and GPS location system built into one easy-to-use package. The
equipment fits into one suitcase and can be deployed onto any tracking vehicle in less than 5
minutes.

FEATURES
• Installed and ready to use in under five minutes
• RF tracking signal and live GPS fix transmitted back to tracking vehicle
• Maps on a Laptop PC display GPS fixes of both target and tracking vehicle
• Automatic adjustment of averaging reduces the influence of multi-path bearing
• Single page controller display shows all tracking information including beacon status
• Audible tone varies according to range for ease of use
• Audible alarms may be triggered by changes in beacon status
• Built-in transmitter commands Elaman's beacons
• Digital signal processing removes need for operator tuning and improves sensitivity
The unique feature of the unit is the benefit of adding live GPS data to the tried and tested RF
tracking capability of the previous generation.
This provides the operator with the best of both worlds.

DEPLOYMENT OF THE DIRECTION FINDING SYSTEM
1. Place the beacon and GPS antenna on the target vehicle
2. Connect the unit to the car's cigarette lighter
3. Connect Laptop to the unit
4. Place the antenna pod on the roof (arrow pointing towards the front of the car)
5. Connect antenna pod to the unit and switch on

Figure 1: Deployment of the Tracking System
1

COVERT RF & GPS
VEHICLE TRACKING SYSTEM

Model 7307

SIMPLICITY FOR THE FIELD OPERATOR
Once deployed, the field operator can use the hand-held controller to locate and follow the
target. The direction to the target is displayed as a pointer. Simple icons display the status of
the beacon (parked, stopped or moving, and the state of the sense input). The relative signal
strength is shown as a bar graph. Both the direction and signal strength are displayed
numerically. The audio tone increases in frequency as the unit gets closer to the target, giving a
clear warning of a close encounter.
Simultaneously, GPS fixes of both target and tracking vehicle can be displayed on a digital map
on a laptop PC. The display also gives an indication every time there is a valid GPS fix. The live
GPS signal from the target vehicle is transmitted back to the unit via the RF link (up to 3
kilometres.
For long-term operations the Elaman series of beacons can be commanded by the unit. This
allows the beacon to be deployed on the target and then put to sleep and woken up, as the
operation requires.

SIMPLICITY FOR THE FIELD STATION CONTROLLER
A field station controller may have many beacons at different frequencies and of differing types
to control. The unit can be programmed with 26 channel frequencies, which can then be linked
to specific beacons.
Once this has been done, the unit need only be told to select, say beacon 1 and it will
automatically configure and optimize itself to that beacon.

THE MODEL 7307 SIMPLY ADDRESSES ALL TRACKING REQUIREMENTS
Whether your requirement is for a single beacon, or numerous implant beacons deployed at any
one time, the unit responds to your needs.

2

COVERT RF/GSM/GPRS/GPS
VEHICLE TRACKING SYSTEM

Model 7308

This unit is a fully integrated tele-commandable GPS beacon with both RF transmitter and
GSM/GPRS back-link facilities. Its features and functionality are optimized for use with Elaman’s
RF/GPS tracking systems and takes GPS tracking to new levels of performance. Powerful
behavior modes allow the operator to live track and command over RF, GSM and GPRS links.
This combination offers the ultimate in flexibility and range allowing the operator to respond to
operational threats and opportunities to maximize mission life and minimize the possibility of
beacon compromise.

FEATURES
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Real-time GPS tracking and command over RF, GSM Data, SMS and GPRS
Full beacon functionality
SMS alert functions
Fast logged data download over RF or cellular back links
Microphone input for audio over the GSM link
Combined SMS tracking and audio transmission
Combined RF and SMS tracking
Trigger sensing input and output switch
Zone dependent behavior linking the beacon’s behavior to its geographical location
Mapping and beacon configuration application available for PC
External power connection for user’s preferred power supply
Compact size maximizing deployment possibilities

TRACKING MODES
The beacon can be programmed or commanded into any of the tracking modes. Furthermore,
the beacon can be programmed to operate in different modes, according to its geographic
location or level of threat.
Tracking Mode:
The unit pulses and GPS location is transmitted over same RF.
GPRS Tracking Mode:
GPS location transmitted over GPRS link.
Town Mode:
The beacon transmits GPS positions at distance intervals instead of time intervals with RF
Pulses on.
GPRS Town Mode:
The beacon transmits GPS positions at distance intervals, instead of time intervals over the
GPRS link.
Highway Mode:
For high-speed tracking where GPS data is transmitted at long distance intervals and at highway
exits.
GPRS Highway Mode:
For high-speed tracking where GPS data is transmitted at long distance intervals and at highway
exits.
Transponding Mode:
Only the unit pulses are transmitted, but GPS location can be requested by RF command.
1

COVERT RF/GSM/GPRS/GPS
VEHICLE TRACKING SYSTEM

Model 7308

Roaming Mode:
Only beacon status information is transmitted (ID number, motion status and logging status).
Mute Mode:
All RF output is switched off, but GPS location can be requested by RF command.
GSM Ready Mode
No GSM transmission, but GSM module is powered up ready to receive either an incoming
CSD connection, or an incoming SMS command. This mode can be used during normal
tracking.
GPRS Ready Mode
Whilst the beacon is awake, it will maintain a GPRS connection to the network. No tracking data
will be transferred, to allow timely response to commands from the control point.

TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS
RF Transmitter
Center Frequency Range:

150 - 180 MHz or 390 - 420 MHz

Power:

0.3W ±1.5dB (normal power)/ 1W ±1.5dB (high power mode)

Channels:

16 users defined in 5MHz band

Spurii:

<-60dBc

Stability:

Stable up to SWR 1:7

Output Impedance:

50 Ω

RF Antenna Connection:

SMA

Transmission Modes:

6

Data Rate:

38400 Bits per sec nominal

Receiver
Frequency Range:

150 - 180 MHz/390 - 420MHz

Customer Retuneable Band: ±2.5MHz from chosen center frequency
Channels:

16 user defined in 5MHz band

Type:

4kHz FSK

Sensitivity:

+5 to -120dBm

IP3:

-28dBm @ 25°C, -33dBm @ 60°C, -44dBm @ -30°C,

Blocking:

65dB @ 25°C, 59dB @ -10°C, 56dB @-30°C

GPS Module
TTFF:

<60 seconds average from a cold start

Antenna:

3.3V SSMA connector

Logging Modes:

4

Number of data points:

532,480

2

