G OVE RNM E NTAL

SE CU RITY

S OL UT I O N S

Product Information

Portable VIP Protection
CCTV & Alarm System

INTRODUCTION
The revolutionary new system developed for VIP Protection Teams who need to
deploy quickly and efficiently a system of CCTV cameras and alarm sensors all
transmitting back to the main control case. 8 Cameras-4 Video TransmittersEncryption-PIR and IR (Infra Red) alarm system-Digital Recorders-4 split monitors.
The system can either be used fully wirelessly or wired. All is fully portable.

CAMERAS
Supplied with each kit are two sets of cameras, the first set are Four Colour Black &
White fitted with wide angle lenses, a selection of lenses are supplied for different
situations, the camera housing also includes 4 x 250mW microwave transmitter,
adjustable in 1MHz steps for fine tuning, plus dedicated encryption for each camera
and remote control receiver.
These cameras are fitted with a rechargeable battery pack, the cameras can be set to
two modes; one camera in standby coming live when alarm signal is received, this
gives a long operation time on battery, second live at all times, the alarm signal then
activates the recorder in the control case, in this mode the battery pack will last
approximately 5 hours.
A separate mains power pack is supplied for long-term operations.
The second set of cameras are high resolution low light black & white cameras that
are line fed and are for direct connection to the control case, these cameras are fitted
into external housings for exterior operation, they can be fitted with optional
microwave transmitters.
An optional set of Thermal cameras can also be supplied with and without
microwave transmitters for situations where light conditions justify thermal cameras.

CONFIDENTIAL

page 2

ALARM SYSTEM

Supplied with each kit are four x PIR radio sensors and four x magnetic radio door
contact sensors.
The sensors are in constant communication with the main case, checking, battery
level, anti-tamper, range with the control case, this allows the operator to move the
case from different locations within the protection area and instantly check if the
alarm signal is being received.
The sensors link to the transmitting cameras, which when in standby mode will be
activated immediately, plus the recorder in the control case will be activated and the
alarm sounded.

An optional pager system can also be linked to the control case alarm system
to call the team leader or other operators when they are away from the
control location.

CONFIDENTIAL

page 3

CONTROL CASE
The control of the complete system is fitted into a Pelican case for durability. The
case houses in the lid, four 8-inch colour LCD monitors and the speaker, in the main
section the receivers are mounted with signal strength meters, frequency control in
1MHz steps allowing for fine tuning on site.
Recording is via the Digital Video/Audio Recorder utilising the latest technology in
hard drive recorders, the digital recorder uses a removable hard drive and produces
DVD quality video and audio recordings, the recorder has many functions such as
freeze frame, slow motion, frame advance, jog shuttle etc all controlled from the
LCD Touch Screen.
Recordings can be to the highest DVD quality at 1.5 hrs, SVHS at 4 hrs and VHS at 6
hrs on a 60GB hard drive.
Outputs are included for video and audio signals to external monitors or additional
recorders.
The external low light and thermal camera hard wired inputs route via the case to the
quad switch and recorder.
The unit is powered by 220vac as standard, with 12vdc vehicle inputs and an internal
rechargeable battery for rapid set-up on site.
The accessories are fitted into a second Pelican Case allowing for ease of handling
and protection of the cameras and ancillary equipment.

CONFIDENTIAL

page 4

TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS

CamTX
Watec LCL181 fitted with - 250mW Video / Audio transmitter.
TSE CAMTX
Operating frequencies

Audio Video Transmitter
1GHz–2.7GHz
Low Band 1GHz–1.4GHz in 10MHz steps
adjustment by external rotary switch
Mid Band 1.4GHz–1.9GHz in 20MHz steps
10 preset channels
High Band 1.9GHz–2.7GHz in 25MHz steps
16 preset channels optional
US model, 2.4GHz

RF power output
RF power impedance
Frequency stability
Video carrier deviation
Video input level
Video frequency response
Audio sub-carrier frequency
Audio sub-carrier deviation
Stereo version
Audio pre-emphasis
Audio frequency response
Audio input level

Power req. voltage
Dimensions
Working temperature
Weight
RF connector
Video connector
Audio connector
Supply connector

100mW ±1dB
50W (SMA)
±300kHz
±4MHz (FM)
1Vpp adj. 75W (BNC)
50Hz–5MHz +0/-2dB
1.5MHz–7.5MHz
±50kHz FM
8.065MHz Ch1, 7.500MHz Ch2
Standard 50ms
20Hz–15kHz ±3dB
LINE 100mV into 5KW
MIC input 20mV for electret microphone
(internal link selectable)
12.5Vdc, current 105mA
52mm x 64mm x 23mm
-10/+50°C
150g
SMA female
BNC female
RCA female
2 pole direct insertion

CONFIDENTIAL

page 5

S OL UT I O N S
S ECU RITY
GOVE RNM E NTA L

If you would like further Information about ELAMAN,
or would like to discuss a specific requirement or project, please contact us at:
Elaman GmbH
German Security Solutions
Seitzstr. 23
80538 Munich
Germany
Tel: +49-89-24 20 91 80
Fax: +49-89-24 20 91 81
info@elaman.de
www.elaman.de

