.XRY SIM Investigator
Model TSE 4018

CONFIDENTIAL
– Subject–to
changetowithout
notice!
CONFIDENTIAL
Subject
changeprior
without
prior notice!

1

.XRY SIM Investigator TSE 4018

A fast, secure and easy to use Forensic System for Mobile Phone Examination
With the SIM investigator system you can download data from the SIM and the handset in a mobile phone quickly and securely. A copy of all data is downloaded in only a
few minutes and then the data can be analyzed or used as evidence. The SIM investigator software guarantees that the data in the mobile phone cannot be changed or deleted.
Examples of data that SIM investigator can download:
− Phone books – names, numbers, E-mail etc.
− Text messages – sent, received, unsent and archived
− Calls – dialed, missed and received calls
− Pictures – stored pictures and pictures taken
− Calendar information
− Tasks
− Audio files
− IMEI, IMSI
The software automatically recognizes what mobile phone is connected
to the communication unit. No special
setup is required to start reading the
mobile phone. SIM investigator has
been developed in consultation with
Swedish Customs, the Swedish Police and the Swedish National Laboratory of Forensic Science, and with
feedback from the UK Police.
Communication Unit
The SIM investigator communication unit can communicate with the mobile phone via
IR, Bluetooth or cable. The unit connects to a PC via USB. The communication unit is
built to be flexible, robust and portable, to suit both fieldwork and office work.
USB
Connection to a USB cable makes it easy to connect all kinds of mobile phones. SIM
investigator is delivered with an USB interface. You can use either the mobile phone
manufacturer's cables or Gamma’s cables.
Bluetooth
Bluetooth is a standard that is a feature of many newer phone models. SIM investigator
is delivered with Bluetooth interface.
IR
Infrared is still very common as a feature in mobile phones. SIM investigator is delivered with IR interface.

CONFIDENTIAL – Subject to change without prior notice!

2

Hardware Key
The SIM investigator software can be installed in an optional number of computers. To
carry out an examination of a mobile phone, just connect the communication unit using
the USB key that comes with the system. The key also counts the examinations.
Charging
A smart universal charger is included in the SIM investigator system. You can easily
charge the mobile phone before doing an examination.
Complete Report
SIM investigator creates a report of all downloaded data. The report is also ready for
administrative data as case reference, operator, exhibit id and other information useful
to the investigation. Your own logotype, address and other contact details can easily be
entered into the report. The time and date of the examination are generated automatically.
Calls and Text Messages
A clear presentation of all incoming, outgoing and missed calls that the phone has the
capacity to store is listed. Any name stored with a telephone number is also included.
Text messages read, sent, unsent and archived are also listed. All the data is specified
with its storage location in the phone – the SIM or in the Device.
Contact Data
All data about the contacts in the phone are listed as name, phone number, and mobile
number, E-mail etc. All the data is specified with its storage location in the phone – the
SIM or in the Device.
Pictures
All the pictures that are stored in the phone are listed in the report. The built-in preview
function enlarges the picture for a first look.
Audio
All audio files that are stored in the phone are listed in the report. The audio files can be
played directly from SIM investigator.
Continuously Developing
SIM investigator is continually being developed apace with new features in phones and
new phone models on the market.

CONFIDENTIAL – Subject to change without prior notice!

3

Additional Features
Export:

export of all data or selected data.

Print:

printed report of all data or selected data.

Search:

search for a name, number, text or other data directly in the software.
Collected data: The system creates a file that includes all the downloaded data from the phone. The extension of the file is SIM investigator
and no separate files for pictures and audio files are necessary.

SIM Reader: with the SIM Reader you can send a SIM investigator file to someone
who does not have the SIM investigator system. SIM Reader is a free
download and together with an SIM investigator file all downloaded data
can be read. The SIM Reader is ready to run and does not require installation.
Encryption:

the SIM investigator file is encrypted to secure the file from unauthorized
access.

CONFIDENTIAL – Subject to change without prior notice!

4

The whole XRY System

CONFIDENTIAL – Subject to change without prior notice!

5

1. Mobile phones & mobile communication forensics:
traditional method (without XRY)
Manual work
Extraction of evidence from mobile phones involves very often a lot of manual work
with risks for various errors. Usual phones often require several hours of work. Modern
phones contain more and more data and the extraction requires more and
more time.
Lacks of speed & effectivity
Speed is often critical in most investigations. A simple SMS, call list or entries of the
telephone book can reveal important connections between suspects. Waiting hours for
data from a telephone is frustrating for the investigators who put pressure on the forensic technicians.
Hazardous reliability & security
Manual creates unnecessary risks for errors. The lack of documentation makes it impossible to know exactly what data to expect to retrieve from a phone so you can miss
important details. Nothing guarantees the integrity of the information you have obtained.
Significative costs
Because of the critical importance of the information you can obtain and the technical
evolution of mobile phones, you will have to spend some more and more time to examine them. Spending time on telephones supposes spending resources.

2. The SIM investigator System
Automatic extraction
SIM Investigator System automatically recognizes the connected phones; the extraction
is then launched and completed automatically as well. A ready-to-use report is generated. It can be diffused or screened directly in SIM investigator or exported to any application.
Speed & effectivity
As the ready-to-use report has been automatically generated after about 20 minutes,
you saved a lot of time doing something else during the extraction.
Optimal reliability & security
No manual work is needed: risks for errors are eliminated. The data goes only from the
phone to the SIM investigator software. No modification of the phone nor its content is
possible. The phone is safe under and after the extraction. The information is secured in
the SIM investigator report both using SIM investigator or SIM investigator reader.

CONFIDENTIAL – Subject to change without prior notice!

6

The report is protected by encryption and a harsh-key. The report can be protected by a
password. The performance of SIM investigator is fully documented on each supported
phone in the XRY phone manual so you know exactly what data you will retrieve before
proceeding to the extraction.
Flexibility
The information can be screened and diffused directly into the SIM investigator software or the SIM investigator Reader. SIM investigator Reader is the free version of SIM
investigator software.
Reports can be sent on a CD either SIM investigator Reader: they can be screened on
any PC then without any installation.
All information can also be exported to any other application by a single click.
Signifivative savings
Saving much time on mobile phones examination will save you a lot of resources. You
will be able to treat many more mobiles more effectively, leading to new savings on the
investigations.
Composition of the SIM investigator system :
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Software on CD
A communication unit equipped with a Bluetooth port, an infrared port and a USB
port
USB telephone cables, telephone-specific, 22 pieces
A USB key that also functions as a counter
A USB cable for connecting between computer and communication unit
A SIM/USIM-Card reader which is tested with SIM investigator 2.x system
Manuals in PDF format

Customer Benefits
Reads the logical phone memory based on using an “Examination SIM-card”, which unlocks access to logical memory, for example, call list, etc. valuable information.
Scenario 1:
There is a SIM-card in the phone, which is locked, and it is difficult to get information at
short notice from the mobile network provider, for example, PIN/PUK code. With the
“TSE 4018 Examination SIM card” product the examiner can create a “SIM-card
copy/clone” which gives access to the logical phone memory.
(NOTE: This is valid for phones where only ICCID is needed).
Scenario 2:
There is no SIM-card since it has been lost or damaged. With the “TSE 4018 Examination SIM card” product the examiner can create a “SIM-card copy/clone” which gives
access to the logical phone memory.
(NOTE: The examined needs either ICCID or IMSI, which requires a contact with the
mobile network operator, i.e. it is probably easier if the operator is a local one or information exchange with police is well established).
Scenario 3:
The SIM-card is available and open to read, but the examiner prefers to have the mobile
phone out of the mobile operator network (“radio signal silence”), for example, to avoid
having the memory changed by incoming calls, SMS etc. With the TSE 4018 the examiner can create a partial copy of the SIM-card, which is “radio signal silent”.

CONFIDENTIAL – Subject to change without prior notice!

7

Provided by G2 SYSTEMS to use the product:
1) The TSE 4018 Software product (will be integrated with the TSE 4018)
2) SIM-card reader (which is the same as used with the TSE 4018)
3) Prepared and tested SIM examination cards
4) Information in a manual for each phone model on how to use this product
5) Support
Informations obtained by the SIM investigator (not a comprehensive list)
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Received SMS messages saved on SIM cards
Received SMS messages saved on the mobile phone's internal memory
Times, dates & numbers from which SMS messages have been sent
Contacts on SIM cards, mobile phone numbers
Erased SMS messages (With the XRY integrated SIM card reader)
Contacts on the mobile phone's internal memory incl. subsidiary information such
as e-mail, addresses, fax numbers, etc.
Calendar information
"To do" information
Missed calls
Received calls
Dialed numbers
Pictures
Sound files
IMEI
IMSI
Time and date on the mobile phone, and matching these to the same on a computer
The Unicode function allows reading and extracting information in any language including Hebrew, Russian, Arab, Chinese etc.
& more to come with frequent free upgrades

General functionalities
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Automatic recognition of connected supported phones
Automatic creation of a ready-to-use report • Export of the information in any other
application by a single click
Export directly to MS Excel by a single click
Complete print function
Search engine to search specific information in the report
Encryption • Flexible design of the report
Diffusion of information with the SIM investigator reader
Extraction from non-supported phones enabled • Saves a complete log-file in txt
from each extraction process
Abortion and saving of pending extraction enabled
Unicode for extractions in any language including russian, arab, chines, hebrew etc.
& more to come with frequent free upgrades

SIM investigator supported phones
SIM investigator 2.4 supports more than 170 different models of mobile phones from
brands like Ericsson, Sony Ericsson, Nokia, Samsung, Siemens, Motorola, LG, Sagem,
Sharp and Panasonic.
All supported phones are recognized automatically by the SIM investigator and fully documented in the SIM investigator phone manual. Non-supported but similar phones can
also be identified manually, to be examined with SIM investigator.
More models and brands are constantly added with every new release. New releases
are shipped to G2 systems Ltd´s customers every two month with new functionalities
numbers of new supported phones each time.
CONFIDENTIAL – Subject to change without prior notice!

8

CONFIDENTIAL – Subject to change without prior notice!

9

