Telephone Line Monitoring 
Zebra Optical Gateway 

CONFIDENTIAL

1

Zebra optical gateway
The Zebra optical gateway is designed to connect
the Zebra monitoring centre system to
SDH/SONET and E3/DS3 telephony networks. It
provides a highly dense connectivity solution: 2
bi-directional STM1/OC3 carriers can be
intercepted in a single 1U 19” rack module. The
unit supports 1 STM4/OC12 input. An expansion
module (currently under development) provides
connectivity for 12 E3/DS3 inputs. Used in
conjunction with the Zebra monitoring centre
system, the Zebra gateway provides a very
powerful telecommunications monitoring solution.
Unlike general purpose media gateways and
protocol converters, the Zebra gateway is
designed to support the requirements of
communication monitoring. This allows the Zebra
monitoring centre system to support features
that were not possible with the previous
generation of monitoring equipment, for example:
• The Zebra gateway and Zebra monitoring centre system can process primary rate carriers
containing only SS7 signaling timeslots (e.g.: 31 signaling timeslots on an E-1)
• The Zebra gateway supports any combination of hyper channels (consecutive timeslots
used together to provide one bigger n x 64 kbps channel) together with E0/D0 (64 kbps)
channels on the same carrier
• The Zebra gateway supports channelized E1/T1, E3/DS3 and STM1/OC3 (unframed
streams used as bit streams)
• E1/T1, E0/DS0 channels, hyper channels and channelized carriers can be mixed on the
same gateway
• The Zebra optical gateway can be used in conjunction with other Zebra gateways (for
example: the Zebra E1/T1 gateway) in the same Zebra monitoring centre system
• The Zebra monitoring centre system reads data from the Zebra gateway over Ethernet,
allowing the processing of monitored streams to be farmed out to as many servers on the
network as required for the connected capacity. This allows a Zebra system to be scaled
up to an unprecedented capacity of over 150 000 monitored channels in a single system

CONFIDENTIAL

2

Specifications

Dimensions and
weight

Capacity

Carrier type
configuration
Channel
configuration
Input signal
strength
Termination and
connectivity
LAN
AC power input

The Zebra optical gateway is a 1U 19” rack module
8kg
8 SDH inputs provide a capacity of 4 monitored SDH bearers, each
with a protection switching input. The system supports automatic
switchover to the backup bearer when protection switching is used.
All the traffic offered on every connected STM-1 bearer, or one
STM-4 bearer can be processed.
4 × STM1/OC3 or 1 × STM4/OC12
On expansion module: 12 × E3/DS3
Any combination of signaling channels, bearer channels, hyper
channels and channelized primary rate, E3/DS3 or STM1/OC3 may
be configured.
0 to – 40dB
SFP connectors offer:
Optical connectivity short and long-haul.
Electrical connectivity for STM1/OC3.
Coaxial 1.6/5.6 connectors support electrical connection of E3/DS3.
3 × 1 Gbps Ethernet
Copper or fibre
110V to 240V AC
Automatic switching

Redundant power 110V to 240 VAC
input
Automatic switching
Power
consumption
Multiplexing

VoIP

ATM

100W
All standard types of multiplexing are supported, including, E13,
M13 and G.747.
The Zebra gateway supports the interception of VoIP streams in
hyper channels or channelized primary rate or higher multiplexed
streams.
Protocol processing is on open platforms.
Interception of ATM carried over E1/T1 is supported.
Protocol processing happens on open platforms.

CONFIDENTIAL

3

CONFIDENTIAL

4

